
Not just another Indian book a GENUINE legend. 
Told in the true fashion of a Hageotah (story teller), The Secret of No Face has never been recorded before. It's a tale of Utgo (evil) and Orenda (the power for good) and provides a unique glimpse of Iroquois culture and tradition. 
Written by an actual Seneca Pine Tree Chief and his life-long friend Oledoska, the volume ii includes full color illustrations and sketches. , . • ' 
It will fa~1;,~t~~i~:ny~~~g5~~~P~~b:~td;;\5 
Jll 
"This is a delightful and illuminating Seneca folk tale." 

-LIBRARY JOURNAL 
"It is a sincere effort to communicate a genuine Seneca leg­end or 'telling'." 
INDIAN VOICE 

Check or Money Order payable to: 
NATIVE AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO. P.O. Box 2033 Santa Clara, Ca. 95051 



,,1 never led an expedition against 
Indians but that I was ashamed of these!J, ashamed of my government, f1IYd ashamed of my flag; for they were 0fways in the right and we were always ~ the wrong. They never broke a treaty ,n dwe never kept one." 
an -BUFFALO BILL CODY 
IND/AN VOICE 1 




indian*llOicc 
*Though we are not Indians, The People have a variety of names for themselves. Among them: Human Beings, The Original People, Tobacco People, Keepers ofthe Fire, Com People, etc. With this In mind, we will refer to Native People simply as Indians when convenient In the texl 
i watch in fear 
the hummingbird might stab my eyes o ut with his bill the horse could trample my bones with his hooves the badger could tear my throat out in my sleep 
but i walk and i sleep wit hout fea r in their homes for the animals do not use their great strength in killing ionly watch in fear for the soft weak man. 
Norman Russell 


MEMBER 
AMERICAN INDIAN PRESS ASSOCIATION * * * 

NATIVE AMERICAN PUBLISHING COMPANY 
President 
Fern Eastman, Dakota Board of Directors Dean Chavers Lumbee Woesha Cloud North, Winnebago­Richard Green Oneida Ojibwa Archie Blacks~ith, Lakota Ann Hansen, Acoma Carole Stubbs, Dakota Ken Ryan, Abenaki ~da Ryan, Ojibwa 
rth ur Millard, Quechan 
VOLUME Ill, No. 5 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
EDITORIAL 2 
NEW INDIAN POLICIES OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT? / Pat Porter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 
RUSSELL MEANS: NEW INDIAN HOPE / Vine Deloria, Jr. . . . . . 5 
PART 3: OMANI LAKOTA/ Tahca Ska . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 
PLIGHT OF THE URBAN INDIANS/ Otto Trabue ............. 10 
THE TRUTH ABOUT SYPHILIS AND INDIANS / Robert Meigs, Jr. . ....................................... 11 
WHAT PRICE GLORY, AMERICA?/ Lou Marder .............. 12 
RESEARCH NEEDS IN HIGHER EDUCATION / Dean Chavers ........................................... 14 
NATIVE AMERICAN POETRY/ Darryl Wilson ................. ~5 
VERNON BELLECOURT SPEAKS ............................ 18 
AIPA NEWS FEATURES: 

Hawaiian Natives Want Compensation 
for Aboritinal Lands ..................................... 20 Sacheen .....................................•.......... 20 Morris Thompson-Potential Nominee for 
Commissioner of Indian Affairs . •....................... 28 
WIGWAM EVENINGS-12th Evening/ Charles and Elaine Eastman . ............................. 21 
EDITOR Fern Eastman, Dakota 

STAFF 
Don Guerrero, Tarahumara Robert Meigs, Choctaw-Cherokee John Kaahanui, Dakota-Cherokee Oneoda, Ojibwa Ann Lewis, Acoma Ken Ryan, Abenaki Jean McLean, Lakota Darrell Standing Elk, Lakota 

Carol Stubbs, Dakota ,.·•.,,,;...--·­
Jim Domke, photographer. -:· 
Indian Voice, the all-Indian newsmagazine © copyrighted (1973) by Native American Publishing Company, a non-profit organization. It will endeavor to present an authentic glimpse of all aspects of Native life, past and present, written from the Indian viewpoint. No part of it may be reprinted without permission. Editorial offices are located at 1984 The Alameda, San Jose, Ca. 95126. However, all correspondence must be addressed to: P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara. Ca. 95051. Manuscripts and art materials are welcome but no respon­sibility can be assumed for unsolicited materials. Names of characters in short stories and poetry are fictitious. Writers and photographers should query. Indian Voice is published monthly except July and August. Application to mail at second-class postage rates is pending at San Jose, Ca. Single copy price is 75 cents. Subscription rates are: $7.50 for one year, $15.00 for two years and $22.00 for three years. Foreign and Canadian subscribers must add $1.00 per year for additional handling expenses. Printed in U.S.A. by union printers. 
IND/AN VOICE 


~ 
s
;::) 
0
z '<:J' 
0\ 
< ~ > < 
z 
u µ:.f 0 ~ 
!--< < 
~ c., 
0 z 
,--1 :::1 
~
""' ;::)
00 N o::l 

THE DILEMMA OF INDIAN LEADERSHIP 
As WE LOOK BACK OVER THIS PAST SUMMER, three situations seem to sta d from the cours~ of ~ndian affairs, and all three_ reflect_ a perplexing pr~bl;~~ how does one, 1f he 1s human, an accultered Indian subJugated by the con · 
· d h" h 1· quer­
mg power, an young, ac 1eve to t e qua 1ty necessary in an Indian lead ? 
The summer began amidst the confusion and apathy of the aftermath erf the Wounded Knee settlement. It was a time of vague rumors about dissen •0 in the ranks of AI~ leadership-purported ego struggles a~d vieings for in~:~ ence. These were silenced by the second event: the community and togetherne at the Sacred Sun Dance of the Lakota Oglala, where Crow Dog danced with a magnificent display of spiritual and physical courage-where three of th National AIM leaders danced for four days, praying together for the India~ People. 
As individuals, it is most understandable how modern Indians, their spirit ground raw all their lives by the attrition of the assault against them by the domi­nant society, can fail over and over again to live up to the traditions of their people by attacking and mutilating themselves and each other. It is happening every night in every reservation town in America. But it is imperative, if our people are to survive, that our leaders somehow grow in their spirits to a plane of strength and devotion to their responsibilities which is above the petty ado­lescent squabbles of the punctured ego and the self-oriented rage which are the privileges of individuals, but not of Indian leaders! This is the plane which Crazy Horse and Sitting Bull, Chief Joseph and Cochise hold out to our memo­ries as the example of a warrior-chief. 
These leaders too were human and had their personal problems. All of them were faced with a much more ferocious attack than are any today. But de pite their untenable circumstances they led us as Indians, mature in their knowledge of the great task they had undertaken, who controlled their passions, whetted the keen edge of their minds for their acts and decisions, and prayed each day for the power to serve their people well. As a result they left us with an example which awes the whole world. 
Of course, these old chiefs had grown up in their tradition, not in the ac­culturating slums of today. It was probably easier then to be strong, wise and self controlled. Russel Means, perhaps one of the strongest Indians alive toda • in a speech this summer, spoke gravely of his realization that he was not yet a strong as the warriors of old. That leader will probably become so, but the fate of our people depend on whether or not he and a few others do grow to that 
excellence. h It is easy for us as Indians to sit here, without being in the forefront of t e struggle, and criticize our leaders for their failure to live up to Crazy Ho and Sitting Bull. Rather is it for us to stand with our leaders, to pr~y for ~~e~
1

every day with our pipes, and to remind them of the words of S1tung Bu · is not that I have sacrificed all my life that my people would love me, but th t I have done so because I loved my people." 
It is in that spirit that we exhort our leaders and those who would becomd our leaders, to put aside their petty squabbles, overcome the _to_nured h~g~ an,_ its resultant adolescent rages, and set as their model and their ideal t . rry lence of the chiefs who preceeded them. For it is only so that they can ca to the freedom and victory which is our Indian destiny. 
00 
~ 
0 
00 
'<:J' 
""' 
~ 
3 
L. 
Cf) 
+..J 



(J) ~ 
C 
ro 
·-L. ·-ro 


L. "O 
C 
C
Ct, 
H 
ro 
u 
~ 
Q) 
E
0 
~ 
--, I ,­
~=I ._
_, 
ATTENTION 



SUBSCRIBERS 
Change of Address? Zip Code Correct? 
We can assure prompt delivery of your maga­zine if we show the correct address and ZIP Code on your mailing label. (Postal regula­
tions require us to file addresses according to ZIP CODE.) If you move, be sure to 

Fill out and mail to: 
IND/AN VOICE P.O. Box 2033, 
Santa Clara, California 95050. 
.  I  
"'  
ll:'.  
"'  
J:  
(/)  
(/)  
"'  
0::  
. 0  
C  
<  
"'  
r  z  
I I  ll:'. :::,  
I  0  
I  .  
I I  1­z  
I  :  ~  
I  .  ~  ~  >­ 
~  ~  ~  
I____ ______ z__ V)__  u__  

~l 
~ 
--"'I 


Many people have been surprised to discover that there are already laws in effect provi~ing for I~dia-? managem~nt of their own programs and services. The idea 1s not new with the Nixon Administration which dramatically introduced a bill in 1970 providing for Indian take-over of programs and is now sponsoring another such bill, S.1343. Senator Jackson is also sponsoring S. lO17, providing for contracting of programs to tribes. 
Actually a law dating back to 1834 (25 USC 48) specifies that tribes can "direct the employment of their blacksmiths, mechanics, teachers, farmers, or other persons engaged for them" -ifthey are deemed competent to do so by those in power in the BIA. And government programs can be contracted to tribes through the "Buy Indian" Act (25 USC 47), which directs that "so far as may be practicable Indian labor shall be employed" and Indian products bought. Another law, the 1921 Snyder Act (25 USC 13) provides for general BIA appropriations which can be used for contracting. 
But government officials, concerned only with preserving the BIA bureaucracy, have seldom encouraged Indian control and in fact have actually discouraged suchcontrol by purposely raising the spectre oftermination whenever a tribe bas become interested in self-determination in any way. Indian management of programs.has only been considered recently because disclosures of government incompetence, lll~h as the NAACP report An Even Chance which revealed nnsuse of Indian education fonds, have resulted in mounting Pl'CSsures from both Indians and supporters to give tribes a chance to do things themselves, something they have always 
tanted and certainly are entitled to. 
It was not until former BIA Commissioner Louis Bruce 
~d his team of young Indian professionals came along in
/0that pla~s for ~ribal management we~e spe~ded up. The 
3:4 l~w which had always been convemently ignored was :tah_zed and by authority of this law, the Zunis were the pr t tnbe to be given the responsibility for operating BIA ~gra_ms. The BIA, however, still oversees the tribal lllakratton, does the hiring and firing of employees, and """'nes Policy in Washington over which the tribes have no 
~ trot. 
~ Salt_ Ri_ver Pima-Maricopas near Phoenix and the 
Ope ~n T1ing1ts and Haidas also assumed control of BIA 
lri:llons_and some federal officials have been replaced by 
Co 0ffic1~ls and employees. 
~ ntractmg with tribes by authority of the "Buy Indian" 

Coni~as. seldom done until Louis Bruce became BIA 
ssioner. It was Alexander McNabb, a Micmac

"'-ng;;nd Bruce_'s man in charge ofOperating Services who 
ahead with extensive contracting negotiations until he was later stopped in his efforts by the government. He had experience working in an OEO contracting program and found BIA procedures incredibly restrictive compared to those in OEO, but he did manage to give contracts to some tribes interested in them. One contract which later caused an uproar in the government was given to the Navajos for their controversial newspaper, Dine Ba Bani, critical of both the BIA and the tribal government. The response ofgovernment officials to subsequent pressure from powerful Western interest groups was to cut offfunds for the paper and declare that the contract was illegal. Later, funds were,continued but the paper itself was nearly ruined. 

Another contract negotiated by McNabb also incurred the wrath of former Congressman Wayne Aspinal,. once chairman of the House Interior Committee, and James Haley, former chairman of the House Subcommittee on Indian Affairs, who threatened to add prohibitory language to Interior appropriations bills to stop such contracting in the future. The contract turned over to the Florida Miccosukees all BIA operations and was finalized only after unnecessarily long and strenuous negotiations with BIA officials. 
In October 1971,. there were over 800 contracts in effect between the BIA and the tribes ranging from the management of educational and social service programs to the rental of dump trucks. But after a year,, McNabb's work for the tribes was halted and authority for contracting was. shifted to a non-Indian, Calvin Brice, who slowed down contracting considerably.. Now, a few years later,.there·are· only about 600 contracts in operation. 
The Administration explanation for the slow-down is that auditors and other officialsoflnterior's.OfficeofSurveyand Review said that the BIA was.moving too fast and was not following federal contracting regulations. Perhaps the· real problem is better indicated by an explanation given in a recent interview with Marvin Franklin,. Assistant to the Secretary on Indian Affairs, who commented,,••Toe BIA sent out salesmen who weren't contracting officers to tribes to write out contracts without following Federal Procurement Regulations and they didn't consult with agency superintendents or area directors." 
Some contracts are now being, established by Indian Action Teams who are providing· necessary training and financial resources for Indian enterprises on 19 reservations. This program is operated by an Indian corporation in Denver which itself has a contract with the BIA. This organization, the Indian Technical Assistance Group,. was established in 1969 by restructuring a BIA plant management engineering center and is a model ofwhat area offices could .become. However, b~caus,e area directors am 
IND/AN VOICE 
threatened by loss of power, they want this organization abolished. Marvin Franklin's current reorganization proposal, developed in part by area directors, would cut funding for this organization in half. 
Formerly there was no such program on reservations, and Indians were sent to cities for vocational training and em­ployment. Non-Indian firms were called into reservations to accomplish the tasks at hand and to hire whomever they pleased. This policy resulted in few Indians being hired and tribal money flowing off the reservations into non-Indian hands. On most reservations this is still the case because there are few or no Indian enterprises -much depends on the whims of local BIA agency or area directors rather than on tribal desires. For instance a Navajo Community College study revealed that on the vast Navajo reservation, 67 percent of the Navajo dollars are spent off the reservation; only 13 percent is spent on the reservation and the rest goes for taxes and other items. 
But some tribes desiring more self-determination have nevertheless declined to take over programs or to contract because of lack of funds or because the law of 1834 and the "Buy Indian" act contain ambiguities or deficiencies which do not answer all their questions and assuage fears of termination. Because the process of take-over of programs or contracting has often been difficult for both tribal and government officials, new legislation is clearly needed. 
Unfortunately there was very little Indian input in President Nixon's 1970 legislative package , which included a tribal take-over, although it was promoted as consisting of "Indian bills." In writing the bills, White House officials should have gathered Indian ideas and opinions concerning needed legislation and Indians should have been directly in­volved in the actual writing of those bills. But ironically enough, despite President Nixon's 1970 message announcing his commitment to Indian self-determination, instead of going to the tribes in order to write the bills, the White House preferred to use tribal resolutions from various conferences when writing the bills in Washington. 
Because of criticism from Indian country, in late 1970 the Administration set up field hearings on Nixon's bills under the auspices of the National Council on Indian Opportunity. These hearings, however, were often ill-attended because not all tribes were aware of them. Also, the tribes were often un­familiar with the bills and even government officials themselves were handing out incorrect or misleading in­formation on the Nixon bills. In the hearings, the Indians frankly indicated their displeasure in the way they were left out of the writing of the bills. 
To assuage Indian criticism and win approval of Nixon's legislative package, the Administration's next move was to set up the "Kansas City Indian Leadership conference" which hundreds of tribal representatives attended. But the format of the conference proved its undoing. After panel dis­cussions of the bills -there were rumors that these panels were "stacked" -there were many questions which remained unheard and unanswered because there simply wasn't enough time for audience participation. Indians were again dissatisfied. In yet another effort to win over the tribes, the Administration publicized recognition of the National Tribal Chairmen's Association. However, this organization does not always support Administration policy and in the June 1973 hearings on Nixon's take-over bill and Senator Jackson's alternative contracting bill, NTCA supported the latter. 
In the NCIO field hearings, the 1970 take-over bill which later emerged in 1971 as S.1573 and is now pending as S.1343, received some favorable comments f Governor Lewis from Zuni, for instance said ;~m.Indians, had been in effect before, at least some'of th at if the bill Zuni would have been eliminated. But many m~ P_r~ble111s at


d isg1v1ngs
expressed an consequently, S.1573 received 1't Were
1

support the_n or in later hearings held in May 197~tThlndian recent version, S.1343, was seldom discussed • · e lllost 1973 hearings. in the June 
Commenting on the bill in 1972, Willia y President of NTCA said, "Most of the reservati~s ~UJ)Cc feel this would maybe eventually lead to ter . ~d of Tribes are constantly haunted by memori;unation... termination policy of the 50's and the fate of tribs of the the Menominees ~hich became self-sufficient ::~uch as subsequently termmated. Such a policy could r Were cording to the whims of an administration and eCC:r ac­trib~s one~ ~gain u~less_there is a constitutional ame~d:~r agamst tnbal termmat10n. And so tribes fear the nt 
h. h · h h. success 
w icy t ey mig t ac ieve through increased triba 
management of programs. I . On th~ oth~r hanh~' htribes ndatburally do not want to be put m!o a situation w ic . wou1 e more likely to result in failure than success. In the NCIO hearings, Indians said there was no guarantee that tribes wouldn't be pushed int 
taking over program~ ?efore they ~re ready. It was felt tha~ some government officials would hke nothing better than to see tribal failure resulting from premature take-over or programs. 
The alternative to the Nixon take-over bill was first in­troduced in the 92nd Congress by Senator Mansfield for Senator Jackson, himself, and Senator Allott, and expanded authority for contracting with tribes. It passed the Senate in 1972 but died in the House and is now pending as Title I of S.1017. The bill received strong tribal support in both the May 1971 hearings and those held in June 1973. 
The latest Administration take-over bill, S.1343, would 
provide for the assumption of the control by Indian tribes 
and communities of certain programs and services provided 
for them by the BIA and HEW Public Health Service. It is 
such a broad bill that congressional sources have indicated 
that is has never had a chance ofpassing Congress. Arelated 
bill, S.1342, provides for contracts between the BIA ~ 
HEW and schools states or tribes and Indian commumues 
recognized by the 'secret;ry for programs invol'?ng Indian 
education, health, agricultural assistance, ands~welfarej 
Upon tribal request, the Secretary would proVIde personne 
to assist the tribes in such programs. Thus the 1934Jotm;; 
O'Malley contracting authority as well as that of thew!. be 
Indian Health Service Transfer A. ct as amended w_o bill. 
. ' t tton

extended to tribes. The other related Admirus ra . with S 1340 provides that a federal employee could remalll fi S t;ibe a~d be paid from funds from a program taken overfi or 
· · 1 · fr1·nge bene its.

years before he would lose c1v1 serv1~e . JDJDUD-
Section I of S.1343 defines an Indian tnbe_ or~JDJDUD­
ity as any tribe, band, nation, or Ala~kan Natl~~ rogr&IDI 
ity for which the government provides specia ~ re ter· 
and services because of its Indian identity; !here~ and 
minated tribes urban Indians, state reserva!ionhi~b:11
' · lddmt s ,pa.

most Eastern tribes would not be me u e 
. wbicb 
Section 2(a) provides that all or partofapro~e~ tribe desires to take over would be turne~ ~v~~ t~quest aod tribal organization 120 days after the imtta tarY of die without requiring the approval of the Secre 
1
(seepC' 



On Hearing A Speech by Russell Means 

On June 14th and 15th the Standing Rock Sioux tribe invited a number of prominent Indians to appear at a two­daY meeting to discuss the treaties of the Sioux Nation. standing Rock has a requirement that all elected council inembers hold discussi~ms_ with the~r d_istricts once a month and hold its smaller d1stnct councils m great esteem as the first level of tribal government. The people of the respective districts requested that the various national Indian organizations send people who could discuss the treaties with the district representatives. 
The National Congress of American Indians, the National Tribal Chairmen's Association, the American Indian Move­ment, the United Sioux Tribes and the United Tribes of North Dakota were all invited. I happened to be invited because I am a tribal member and have been working on the treaties of the Sioux nation for some time. All of the National organizations were welcomed with the thought that they could present some idea of the problem of treaty rights enforcement to the local people. A.I.M. was invited but many people on the reservation were fearful that a caravan of AIMs would arrive and promptly begin an occupation so that the audience, if it was slightly favorable to the rest ofus, was disinclined to receive Russell Means and was slightly hostile to him. 
Well, the rest of us took our time at bat and tried our best to convey the complicated problems of treaties to the reser­vation people. And we tried damn hard. There is one basic problem with the Indian treaties. It is the fact that they are the law of the land by court decree and therefore should be followed to the letter. But the course of the land state and federal, do not follow the law of the iand. Rather they take a number of fancy steps sideways and generally decide that in the case before them the treaty doesn't 'l"eally say what it Dlean~. Therefore, it is almost impossible for anyone to :plam to people, particularly reservation people, that while 
.etreaty text reads a certain way, it does not mean that the nghts it describes are really legal rights. to Anyway, we all tried our best to describe the steps that had 
~ taken to get the federal government to enforce the ::hes. From a practical analysis of the political realities of ~~esent we could not hold out much hope and could only 
Cnbe the need for a national organization such as the ta. .A.I. to be present in Washington to stop any really bla­~nt effort to destroy the treaties. But as to preventing the 
:s~ant nibbling away of treaty rights, we could not offer111 ~ hope or many suggestions. lb n the_second day of the meeting Russell Means arrived. 
rneeting room immediately began buzzing and the mur­

111:
\'ii:~grew lo~der as he walked into the hall and sat down. he was mtroduced Russell brought forward the AIM singers and they sang a victory song from their Gordon, Nebraska protest. Then he offered a prayer and para­phrased Black Elk, describing the variety oflife and what we had to be thankful for, even in the present state of affairs which is confused and frightening at best. 

Then Russell began to speak. 
In very simple terms he reminded the people of the strug­gle of generations of Sioux to get justice from the United States. He said he was sad that too often the people acted like Sioux, like cutthroats, and not like Lakota, the allies of olden days. And then he spoke briefly ofhis determination to force the United States to live up to its treaties using any means possible. He called for a great council of Lakota to meet in the Black Hills in August to hold a Sun Dance and to make plans to recover the Black Hills. Finally he concluded by reminding people of the greatness that dwelt in them and by calling for a greater effort to ensure that another genera­tion did not go by that did not know who they were. He said that they had won at Wounded Knee because the little children of the reservation were now playing AIM and goon squad instead of cowboys and Indians and now the little Indian boys wanted to be AIMs, none of them wanted to be goon squads or Dickie Wilsons. 
As I was listening to Russell Means I continually looked around the room to see the faces of the people as he spoke. Almost every face shone with a new pride. It had a beautific vision of the tribe as it should be, not as it had become through a century of betrayal. Old men sat entranced and nodded ever so slightly at the different points Russell discussed. Before the speech an Indian woman had sung a song honoring Russell and after the speech many people came up to speak with him. 
6 IND/AN VOICE 
I came away from Mean's speech with the feeling that Russell is a terribly important man to our tribe. He may be the greatest Lakota of this century and his ability to light the eyes that have been dimmed so long is probably more important for us than anything that anyone else can do. I think it is the pride in living that many Indians have lost and in the manner and clarity of Russell Mean's speech many Indian people found that pride and also found a strength they did not know they had possessed. 
I also saw someth,.ing frightening in Russell's speech. He has become so much in tune with the minds and emotions of reservation people that the elected leaders of the tribes are afraid to be on the same platform with him. Webster Two Hawk and William Youpee, the two men who swing the most weight in Washington, D.C. because they are the heads of the National Tribal Chairmen's Association were actually afraid of the reservation people and so they never showed up at the meeting after informing the Standing Rock Sioux tribe that they would be in attendance. They could not stand to be compared with Russell Means because they had become Indian leaders only in the sense that they run errands for Bob Robertson of the National Council on Indian Opportunity. They are not Indian leaders in the sense that they can bring a reservation crowd to its feet in a calm and reasoned speech for Russell Means did not shout, threaten, or abuse, he merely stated his case and sat down. 
Now this is not to say that I am in total agreement with Russell Means. I think that there are fundamental legal and · political problems that he has. made too simple. And I don't agree with the constant efforts ofAIM to disrupt things. The Oglala Sioux Tribal Council may be a bad form of government but many tribes do have responsive governments and we should not tar all councils with one brush. 
But the one think I did see in Russell Means was his 
courage and determination. Most Indian leaders today are 
tickled to death to have a bureaucrat call them and pat them 
on the head. They will pass any resolution, endorse any 
candidate for a job, support any program no matter how 
detrimental it may be for Indians, all for the sake of being 
loved. I did not see anything of this in Russell Means but a 
fearlessness equal to the warriors of old who stood for what 
was right regardless of conseQuences. That is why I concluded that if the Lakota Nation has prod this century it may well be Russell Means. We Uced a lllan in with him, but we need him. maynota&rcc 


Many of us who have been in Indian Affairs f have become frustrated beyond belief. We hav ~r_some ti111c things from falling apart. We have tried to kee e ned to _keep of hope alive in the hearts and minds oflndianf ~ome flicker us look back sadly at the loss of Clyde Warrior· ~trnanyof afraid to remark that "Indians are finks" and bw O ":as not pe~ple of this fact, turn them aside from the f fo~:nd~g which they were engaged. We have been great! CSs Ill because all we have seen from the national le~Jadd~n~ drunkenness, embezzlement of Indian mo ersbip IS 
nonsense. neys, and My final realization as I heard Russell Means k that we should cherish this man as one ofourgreat=a \Vas History has a way of leveling all the honors ofa cent people. allowing the truly great fig~res to emerge from the s~1:nd as they really were. What 1s the honor involved in be" Ws Nixon appointee, for example, an honor that a great mamg a our present leaders are thirsting for? Who remembe:;:!° hero of yesterday who faded away this year? I am thankful that_ in may time I have been allowed to know three great Indians -Clyde Warrior, Hank Adams and Russell Means. If we had had a hundred like them ' would now rul~ the world. !3ut every race is given only a f: people of th1~ stature m e_ach century. I still have fundamental disagreements with Russell in a number of areas ~nd I a~ still keenly aware that the problems of enforcmg treaties are more comcomplicated than anyone believes. And I am not likely to be in the ranks at the next AIM protest because I don't think that they are very well planned events. But I cannot remain silent because of disagreements over strategy and allow a chance to go by to honor as best I can a man who gave to my tribe even for a brief moment, a vision of something better than what we had. If Russell Means bas faults, and we all do, he also has talent and dedication which greatly outweigh the faults and which in my mind make him one of the great Indians of our time. 
VINE DELORIA, JR. 
(Lakota) 



From The Pages of History ... 
This is a story taken from the pages of history Listen) my brothers and sisters, for it concerns Indians 
like you and me That fateful day when the U.S. cavalry Murdered defenseless Indian families at a place known 
ever since as The Battle 01 wounded Knee 
They talked about peace, surrender they were told With promises always to remain free So in came the Indians to lay down their weapons Only to find themselves to be surrounded by the enemy 
Shots rang out; the Indians were quick to the fight But not one had a gun, not even a knife Not knowing what to do with their men laying dead The women picked up the children and fled. 

With the Indians on the run God,-loving soldiers had their fun With their rifles they found with ease . . They had no trouble killing the remaining famib~ And through the battle could be heard shouts of JOY Whenever a pony-soldier shot a girl or boy. 
This story is forgotten and is now past historr like But it will always remain in the hearts of Indians 
you and me . . f old For we Indians of now are Just hke the ones 0 
Still longing to be free and left all alone. 
We are proud and we can stand ta~l Watch out, Whiteman, you're startmg to fall . One of these days we're going to r1ise up_ agatnwin­Watch out, whiteman, this time we're going to 
-JOHN KAAHANUI 
( Dakota-Cherokee) 



OMANI LAKOTA Part III 

Parts I & II of OMAN! LAKOTA discussed the basic interrelationship of all spiritualam;/ practical elements in the Lakota world. Wakantanka made everything round, so roundness is sacred. Most sacred things were sent to us in groups offour, sofour is the sacred number. The rim ofthe World is round, but upon it Wakantanka placed four directions. Thus in the circle with a cross through it indicating the directions we find the sacred symbol. We discussed White Buffalo Woman who brought to us from Wakantanka the sacred pipe and our whole religion and way oflife. We discussed the cardinal virtues ofmen and women, the structure ofthe family, the practical and sacred interrelationships o·n the design of the tipi. 
MI HUNKAPI, now that we have considered the sacred and practical interrelationships in the structure of the tipi, let us discover those of the camp without. Obviously all camps were villages of tipis, just as American settlements are villages composed of houses. But just as the house is rectangular and irreverent, so are American or European villages. The Lakota camp was round as is the tipi reflecting the sacred circular structure of the world as Wakantanka made it. 
Camp circles varied in size depending 0~ what kind of camp it was, so first we Will consider the various divisions of Lakota society and how they gathered together and functioned so that we may better understand the kind of camps 
they made. yve have already seen that the basic Unit of the people was the family and, on rare occasions when a family camped together alone, they might be seen as a s~all circle of four to seven tipis. But a ~ngle family very seldom camped alone. thsuaUy, many families would group ernselves together as a band ~Umbering between one hudred and two Undred people. Sometimes bands 
Drawing "A" 
T-Tipis H-Heyokas Tipi 

T
X-Council Shade Closed on 3 sides open facing North 

A-Chiefs Tipi W-Warrior Society Tipis Painted designs of Animals H 
would be smaller or larger than this, but 100 to 200 was most common. 
Each of these bands was often very closely associated with several other bands forming a group, which in turn were members of a larger association of groups known as a tribe. The various tribes were further gathered into three Divisions, which taken together formed the Lakota Nation. 
Now these words, Band, group, Tribe, Division and Nation are American words which I am using to describe an actual or usual grouping in Lakota society. The Lakota words are not ~0specific, and the definitions were not very rigid. However, I feel that denoting them in this way aids understanding of the society. For example: one might be a member of Tesunka Witko's (Crazy horse's) band of the H unkpatila group of the Oglala tribe, of the Titoan division, of the Lakota nation. If a stranger asked you who your people were you would say "I am Lakota!" If a Lakota asked, you would say "I am Oglala." If an Oglala asked, you would indicate either that you were H unkpatila or that you fol­lowed Tesunka Witko, whichever seemed appropriate. 
What numbers out of these denominations of the people formed a particular camp depended on the situation and the time of the year. In wmter, when game was scarce and when deep snows often inhibited the movement of a camp readily from place to place, each band usually went off alone and formed a small camp in a favorable place. In particularly harsh winters when game was unusually scarce, even the bands would break up and seperate under sever<!l capable leaders so that the available game in any one location would have to feed a smaller number of people, say twenty five or thirty in a sub-band. This lowered the security, but in such a winter, the enemy too was breaking up and searching for food and not contemplating raids into alien territory through the deep impassible snows. As the thaw came and game became more plentiful the band would re-unite. 
In the summers, the bands would further unite with their group for buffalo hunts and in the Moon of the Red Cherries (July-August) the entire tribe would gather in a huge camp for the Sacred Sun Dance. But, aside from these winter and summer practices, the basic camp unit of society was that usually found in spring and autumn; the Band. 
The special persons who governed and performed the social and religious functions of band society had titles in Lakota which I shall try to render as well as possible in English. Essentially these 
IND/AN VOICE 


were the Chief, the Council, the Magistrate, the Marsha/ls (Akicita), the Herald, the Holy Men (Wicasa Wakan), Medicine men (Pejuta 
Wicasa-Doctors), and various renowned warriors who had a following of young men and who performed various functions. 

The Council was the major governing office of the band. It was composed of older, well rounded men on the third, or more often the fourth hill of life (middle to old age), chosen by common consent of the people for their wisdom .and knowledge. These men (sometimes called big bellies) had the confidence of the people and of each other in their ability to determine what was wisest and best for the band in any situation. They could elevate a renowned warrior or Wicasa W akan to the rank ofchief if the need arose, or they could depose an established chief if they deemed him unworthy. It was the council who would determine which band member was best suited and trusted by the band for the offices of Magistrate or Marshall or Herald. They would talk to all stratas in the band, listen to the opinions of Wicasa Wakan and renowned warriors, then come to decisions about the hunt, about war or peace, about changing the camp location, or dividing the band into smaller groups when game was scarce. Lakota society was much freer and more self determining than most non-Indian societies, but so far as they were "governed" it was mainly the Council who did it. 
The office of chief was hereditary under normal conditions assuming that the old chiefs son was capable, strong in the Cardinal Virtures, respected by the band and possessed of a following among the warriors. If the old Chiefs progeny did · not meet the band standards, then some renowned man would be elevated to the position ( or if capable men were scarce, then a woman possessed of the proper qualities). Large bands usually had several chiefs their then a woman possessed of the proper qualities). Large bands usually had severa~ chiefs; their importance relative to each-other depending on their following and their prestige. Very small bands usually had several chiefs; their importance relative to each-other de­pending on their following and their prestige. Very small bands would have a Headman, usually, but they could not command. Their opinion was only as valuable and formative of policy as was the prestige and regard they enjoyed from the people. For a while a Chief such as Tatanka Iotake (Sitting Bull) 
Drawing "B" 
L-Sun Lodge C-Chief 

' iW-Warrior Society Tipis SL-Sweal Lodge for Dancers-
Door faces East AND ~~~ 






®, V

towards Lodge ,\~.fb)
rtr~ 
©~~ 
might virtually determine himself the movements of Hunkpapa Lakota, but this was only due to the immense awe in which his people held him. The office itself, however, held no binding moral or legal authority. 
The magistrate was an older man, chosen by common consent of the people, but usually appointed by the Council, who was judged to be very just and wise. He might be a Chief, a Wicasa Wakan, a member of the Council or another. He had to be a man thoroughly familiar with the traditions and customs of the people in order to decide disputes. In Camp his position was like a judge as 
he arbitrated all civil affairs. Outside of camp he was the leader of the march or hunt, in charge of all matters after the 
tents were folded. He selected the Marshalls, and often those who supervised the march and the hunt (known as "Wolves). He would select the route of the march, decide where the rest stops should be, as well as when the attack on the buffalo herd should be launched. Through the aid of his "Wolves" he was responsible for seeing that no hunters attacked the herds before the appointed time as this would "spook" the buffalo and ruin the hunt for the rest of the people. 
The Marshalls (In Lakota, AK/CITA) were renowned warriors, often chosen from a particular warrior society, whose duty was to help the people in all ways, (particularly the helpless ones), enforce the decisions of the Council, and protect the safety ofthe people. It was their duty to punish offenders against the tradition or the dictates ofthe Council by one ofthe four usual Lakota forms of punishment: public criticism or ridicule, breaking of 

I 
E I 


their bows ~nd ~rrows or other property, pubhc lashmg with the quirt, or finally (but only in the rarest and most extreme cases was this necessary) by ostracism from the band. 
In a small band, as indicated above all Marshalls and Wolves ~ appointed by !he magi_strate. In large bands the Magistrate might appoint the main marshalls (or designate that a particular warrior society had that responsibility) and then the Manhalls would appoint the Wolves for overseeing the march and the hunt. Akicita were designated by a black stripe on their tipi. On the trail the regular Akicita would ride before and behind the people, while the Wolves would ride along both sides, scouting for game orenemies,andpickingupany stragglers. 
The Herald was a man chosen by the Council to announce all affairs of the tribe to the people. He could be a younger or an older man, but.usually one ill fitted for being a wamor, but whom the people could trust to accurately relay to them wha~ _was happening. He would annou~ce V1S1ton to the Chief or Council, the wishes ofthe Council or Chief to the people, ~ time pow-wows Council meetiDIS,
' ' · bad tO
danger or whatever information 
' · band
be spread quickly to the entire · 

The Wicasa Wakan (Holy Men) were those whose vision had directed=· that preoccupation and who h~d disc1JSS for its exercise. Later we will wlet visions in greater detail, but for n::ie to us just understand that theY cotiJDe iJl Lakota in many ways and at any •tJaer life or in day or night. If one, et -•­
.· or~ 
through one powerful v•~•~n, after through a series of vision5' 


uncing their receipt to the people ~odiscussing them with a Wicasa a11d O finds that this way is to be his W~~tion, he must prepare himself for ited1 do this he offers a pipe to a Holy ti-fOof his choice and then, after it is ~an ted he recounts his vision or ~fos ~nd asks to study with the '~~sa Wakan._ He t~en becomes the \VI r's apprentice until he has learned 
1otte . d" · d 
~ the religious tra it10ns an customs J the Lakota. As such an apprentice he will assist 
Wicasa Wakan in whatever the tions or ceremonies he is serving.full:m learn the seven sacred rites giv~n 
ffe by White Buffalo Woman. He will 10 ~are the buffalo skulls, gather sage ~ sweet grass, prepare the smoking :Xtures of cansasa and tobacco, gather and prepare the material~ for medicine bUDdles as well as gettmg ready the various ~acred materials used in the Sun [)'ance. He will also sit and listen as the Wicasa Wakan adjudicates the oblems of the people and of ~ ividuals so as to learn the exercises of ipiritual wisdom which he must later 
exercise himself. 
But while he is learning these things, 
as the people will know of his visions (at 
wt that he has had them. How much of 
their content is known depends on how 
much he has felt directed to disclose 
piblicly), at some point someone with a 
lick relative whom he feels the 
apprentice Holy Man may be able to 
cure, arrives at his tipi and offers him a 
~pe. If he successfully effects a cure, 
then his reputation . begins to build. 
Fmally, when the people are moved to 
accept him as a full fledged Wicasa 
Wakan when he is selected by 
Wakantanka, communicated to 
times in battle and on the hunt, there 
might come a time when he felt directed 
by Wakantanka to lead a war party-
Drawing "C" 
1-Hunkpapas 
2-Miniconjous 
3-No Bows 
4-TWO Kettles 
5-0galala 
6-Sicongu 
7-Sihasapa 8X-Council shade 
"A"-Chief Tipis 

through a vision, trained by a Holy Man and accepted as such by the people. 
His duties are to preside over ceremonies and serve them, to advise the people on visions and all other religious or spiritual matters, to advise the Chief, the Council or any of the people on any matters including personal ones. He assists the Pejuta Wicasa (herb doctors) in curing the sick. In short, he is a combination priest, doctor, counselor, psychologist and philosopher to the people. The Wicasa Wakan are 
intellectual and spiritual elite of the 
people as it is through them that Wakan 
Tanka most communicates. Tatanka 
Iotake (Sitting Bull) and Tesunka 
Witko (Crazy Horse) were great because 
they were statesmen and warriors and 
generals, but most of all, because they 
were Wicasa Wakan. It is this that most 
distinguishes them from other chiefs. 
The Pejuta Wicasa (Medicine 
Men-herb doctors) were those 
directed to that profession by their 
visions. Often they would be sons of a 
Pejuta Wicasa who learned from their 
father. Or if they were so directed, they 
might go to a Pejuta Wicasa and seek to 
become his apprentice. Then the boy 
would learn all the traditional herbs and 
cures for various ailments. Usually he 
would also learn the uses ofthe pipe and 
prayer to aid him in his cures. Wicasa 
Wakan. also usually knew much about 
herbs and their uses, so that the Holy 
Man was also a bit of an herb doctor, 
and the doctor a bit ofa holy man. Their 
was no specific line between them, the 
difference being in the major direction 
that their vision took them. 

The renowned warriors were those 
who had gained fame and a following 
through their exploits. After a young 
warrior had proved his worth many 
IND/AN VOICE 9 

perhaps to raid some horses from the Crows. He would then go to warriors whom he respected and whom, due to their knowledge of him, he had 
reason to believe might respect him, and offered them a pipe to smoke, first telling them of the project he had in mind. Ifthey then accepted the pipe they were committed to follow him on his expedition. If the venture was successful, and if he led and planned it well, then .the next time he felt so motivated more would be ready to follow him. Eventually, if his success continued and became more and more distinguished, he developed,a following of warriors and became a Renowned Warrior. (This was not exactly a title as such, but in effect, if he had the following he was that and everybody knew it.) Often the leader of an entire war might not be an actual chief but one such renowned warrior. In fact, when Mahpiya Luta (Red Cloud) led the Oglalas and Cheyennes to victory in the Powder River War (the only war and succeeding peace treaty ever won by Indians over the Americans) he was not yet a Chief, but a Renowned Warrior with a great reputation and following. 
The various warrior societies were like fraternities. They stretched across band, tribe and even national levels. For example, the Fox society existed in every band, tribe, and division of the Lakota Nation. When a boy was eight to ten years old a warrior of his band might take a liking to him and become his "Cinye", (older brother). He would take the boy around with him a.nd teach him the things he knew. Later, when the boy was old enough, he became a young warrior and rode and fought with his Cinye. Eventually he might join the warrior society of his Cinye. 
In normal sized bands the warrior societies represented each had its own big tipi, perhaps thirty feet across, where the members met and lounged privately. In a very large band, perhaps all the societies of the Lakota might be represented and have their tipi. 
Now, in the camp circle ofa band, the tipis were arranged in a circle with an opening about fifty feet wide facing to the east. As with the door of the tipi, the opening faced east so that the first light of Wakantanka could enter at dawn. Practically, the opening served as an entrance for the inhabitants of the camp. Starting at the right of the entrance, the most important families of the band would be located, following around sunwise to the left. In the center would be clustered the large ti pis of the 
(see page 27) 



Smothered among service agencies, Urban Indians find themselves between levels of government help. 
Indian people in general have been deprived of the oppor­tunity of obtaining business acumen and have not participated in the benefits of the American free enterprise system. This fact has led to the present economic plight of the first Americans and has been an embarassment to principles upon which this country was supposedly founded. Com­pared with other minority groups caught in the grind of the so-called American free enterprise system and urban poverty, the predicament of 300,000 American Indians who have left their reservations to live in the slums ofthe nation's cities represents a new dimension in wretchedness. The American Indian has found city life even more miserable than blacks, Mexican-Americans, or any other minority group. . 
An Indian's average income is $1 ,500 a year, far below the official poverty level. Infant mortality is three times the na­tional average. His suicide and murder rates are the highest in the country, while his life expectancy is 63.9 years. For all other Americans, it is 70 years. The unemployment rate, for Indians, is nearly 40%, about ten times the national average. Alcoholism plagul!s one of every four Indian men. Their health is bad, and few Indians have skills to compete for goodjobs. It is little wonder that in 1970, President Nixon, an ultra-conservative president, described the American In­dian as "the most isolated minority group in our nation." 
On paper, the urban American Indian and his problems seem an ideal case for the social service programs offered by the federal, state, and local governments and private groups. But as a practical matter, however, the services are not reaching the poverty-ridden urban Indian. At least not in sufficient quantity to make an impact on the problems ofln­dians living in the cities of America. This writer, a profes­sional social worker with the Department of Social Services, County of Santa Clara, sees a big gap, between the social services that urban Indians could be getting and those which they are receiving. In proportion to other poverty and/ or minority groups, the quantity of social services given to In­dians is minimal. This evaluation is tragic when viewed in the context of the social services established to aid the poor. The fact that social services are not getting to the urban Indian ­and there is no clear cut reason for it -has contributed to restlessness among sophisticated Indians who are beginning to organize and fight for better housing, decent employment, and an end to discrimination. 
In Santa Clara County, despite an Indian population of approximately 10,000 (this is not a stagnant figure) the number of needy Indians receiving assistance is small enough to be stylized as a "handful". Some officials are in a quandary about why they cannot reach the urban Indian. They point to the lack of education among Indians and the fact that some Indians are hesitant about accepting welfare services. Thinki?g of this type es~hews the underhand sl components which are the concomitants of racism. Other ol ficials, especially middle management supervisors concerned with income maintenance, assume that the Bureau oflndian Affairs is taking care of most of the problems confronting urban Indians. The Bureau, however, has no responsibility over urban Indians! Its funds must be spent for specific 
programs "on·or near" reservations as stated by law. 
Indians, meanwhile, blame government officials for not doing more in referral and outreach. Most urban Indians are unfamiliar with government agencies other than the BIA Programs designed to educate Indians about other servi~ could alleviate this defect. In addition, many groups of urban Indians would prefer government sponsored social service programs channeled directly to Indian organizations such as American Indian Centers. Urban Indians, to agreat extent, are strangers in cities. When they need services, it is much easier for them to go to a place where there are other Indians: where they feel some sense of belonging. Currently, when an Indian Center is unable to provide a service, referrals are directed to places where, hopefully, Indians can obtain help with minimal difficulty. This procedure has hardly made a dent in solving the problems of Indians. Nevertheless, Indian Centers do fill a void and perform an almost indispensible role vis-a-vis the welfare Indians. 
In the opinion of this writer, an affirmative way of reaching urban Indians is by funding Indian service centers similar to the one in San Jose rather than expecting to reach the urban Indian through traditional public welfare agen­cies. For example, in the traditional service agencies, the urban Indian, not being accustomed to city life, is overrun by blacks, Chicanos, and other minority groups who !1-ve learned that the only way to secure cursory help _IS to demand. The urban Indian has not fully perfected this ap­proach. 
Indian service centers could respond to a spectrum of problems that plague the urban Indian: health care, alcoholism, employment, counselling of v~rious types, = housing. Health. clinics, pre-school learnmg centers, f state employment offices could be housed under o~e ~ 
The Indian who comes to the city from a reservatton then seeks help on his own soon discovers a maze ofp:fZ guidelines, residency requirements, and other q one · cations. He also finds that he must go to an agency 00dad side of the city for one service and to an age~cy in anfmds pait of town for other services. The urban Indian soo::U..eat himself back fighting the various levels o~ ~ove overtY against overwhdming odds. Meanwhile, the v~cious P with cycle confronting him continues. Either on their o.wn or J2} 
(See page 


A popular and recurrin~ m~th in the ~hite man's folk!ore 
bout the American Indian is the claim that the Indians 
~reated syphilis. This claim has been challenged many times 
during the last four centuries and th~ overwhelming bulk of 
the research on the subject tends to disprove any theory ofan 
American origin for the disease. Indeed, there is no evidence 
of any kind to prove that syphilis existed in pre-columbian 
America while there is every reason to believe that the 
disease existed in Europe before the Middle Ages. 
In 1526, Gonzalo FerJ1andez de Oviedo wrote a book dedicated to Spain's Charles V. The book, Natural History of the West Indies, included. t~e cha~ge, made for t~e first time in print, that syphilis ongmated m North Amenca and had been brought back to Europe by Columbus and his merry men. Oviedo wrote: 
Your Majesty may rest assured that this horrible disease came from the Indies. Although it is quite common among the natives, it is not so dangerous there as it is here in Europe. The Indians of the islands cure themselves easily with this wood. 
The "wood" that Oviedo refers to here is the guaiacum and it has never been known to cure any kind of disease, much less syphilis. It should be noted here that Oviedo had never visited the Americas in person. 
Like the disease itself, the myth that the Indians created syphilis seems here to stay. Indeed, when the disease ravaged Europe in the l 530's the myth spread as rapidly as the scourge itself. And everytime the tale was told it was given new and more exotic embeUi~hments. Perhaps the favorite version-which persists even today-is the claim that the Indians created syphilis in Peru where they were supposed to have had sexual intercourse with llama. Sheep! Baaa! Ac­cording to Victor W. Von Hagen in his book The Desert Kingdoms of Peru, such is not possible. He writes: 
IfA merican in origin, syphilis was not the result ofsexual contact between man and llama, which is part ofthefolklore of these studies. The Mochicas give no indication of such contact and no llama was ever found to harbour Treponema Pallidum, the spirochete of syphilis. 
Another fascinating cause for syphilis was given by John Josselyn in his An Account ofTwo Voyages to New England Made During the Years ]638, 1663. Josselyn attributed "the great pox", as he called it, to cannibalism on the part of the Indians. Dr. Cadwallader Colden, writing in 1745, was content to believe that the disease had been created by the Iroquois even though earlier observers among the Indians maintained that syphilis was of European origin. 
Indeed, very few writers have agreed with Oviedo and his fo_llowers, nor do the earliest first hand observations concur With the opinions of John Josselyn or Dr. Colden. It has 
Did VD originate in North America or did it accompany the European invasion? 
been pointed out by R. S. Munger, in the Journal ofthe His­tory of Medicine that "the earliest Spanish physicians who wrote about syphilis per se had no notion that it came from America or even that it existed in America." In 1714, John Lawson in his History of North Carolina maintained that venereal disease, as well as small pox, had been a gift to the Indians from the Europeans. In 1723, the governor-general of Louisiana, Diron d'Artaquette, wrote that "as for the other diseases which came from the corruption of the blood, (the Indians) did not have them at all before seeing the French." 
"They knew not the pox in North America," wrote Mark Catesby in 1754, "till it was introduced by the Europeans." Johnathan Carver, in his Travels Through the Interior Parts of North America, observed that venereal disease did not exist where the white man had not yet visited. In 1774, in a speech before the American Philosophical Society, Dr. Ben­jamin Rush concluded that "the small pox and venereal disease were communicated to the Indians · by the Europeans." 
"It is noteworthy that within the area which now com­prises the United States," wrote Virgil J. Vogel in his com­prehensive American Indian Medicine, "no explorer has reported from observation the presence of these diseases among Indians prior to their contact with whites." In reference to Oviedo, Vogel wrote: "Oviedo's claim as to place of origin of the disease has been disputed, and the efficacy of the supposed remedy was a hoax, although it held its ground for nearly three centuries." 
In 1810, after an "extensive inquiry into the subject," Dr. Benjamin S. Barton concluded that venereal d.isease was unknown among the Indians before white contact. In res­ponse to the question of whether or not the disease existed in Europe prior to the discovery of America, Dr. Joseph M. Toner, in 1877, declared that syphilis was introduced to America from the Old World, where its presence had long been concealed from investigators by varying nomenclature. 
R. C. Holcomb, writing in 1941, agreed with Dr. Toner's opinion adding that the term "syphilis" did not come into vogue until 1530 but that the disease was common in Europe during the Middle Ages under a variety of names-especially leprosy. 
The January 24, 1972, issue of Newsweek made this statement: 
Venereal disease, of course, has plagued man for cen­turies. The first recorded epidemic ofsyphilis swept Europe in the late 15th Century, giving rise to the still popular notion that Columbus' voyal(ers had brought the disease back with 
(see page 32) 
12 IND/AN VOICE 



No two sources are agreed as to where Indians came from. It is not important. 
Indians have been responsible, in part, in the history and development of the West. Many tales, of course, are wonderfully false but the belief in them has been so alluring that countless men, women and children who have read about Indians refuse to believe the truth when they hear it. 
Today's youthful subculture of longhairs -which can rightfully be called a tribe -have taken after American Indians. 
American Indians did not cloud their minds with material things. Consequen­tly they were on a high level of spiritual consciousness. That is the main reason young people identify with them. 
Even in their earthen shelters, Indians created a much more beautiful human society ·than his white brother, who corrupted things with his greed and civilization. 
Luckily for the Indian, he has taken for granted his humble attitude toward life and has not become tainted with white man's greed. (I speak ofthe poorer Indians. The rich, many of whom I am told, turn their backs on the poor of their lot. But this is the way it is, and always has been when men and women put money before humanity.) 
Let us take a quick look into Indian history. Discover the truth behind the movies. "Western" hack writers con­tinue to inundate us with inaccuracies and false betrayal of the Indian's true character. 
The American Indian roamed the great Southwest in freedom and pris­tine grandeur before the white man came. 
Here were the Kiowas, Comanches, Apaches, Pawnee (Pah-nee), Cheyennes, Arapahoes, Shoshone, Dakota, Navajo and others. Let the "savage" speak for himself. 
The early Indian was a truly religious being, with one law to guide him: Nature -the welfare of humanity. He detested anything that disturbed the nature of things. He shunned the missionaries who would corrupt his natural beliefs. There were no Pharisees, infidels, or clashing sects; no deification ofmortals; no tyrannizing over the common mind by courts of "Divine" authority; no bartering for the salvation of souls. 

The American "savage" was a rational creature, physically perfect and true to his ideals. He read his "gospel" from the unfolded panorama of the glorious Nature -the apotheosis of his day-dream life. In his day, there were no prisons, asylums, poor houses, forts or institutions to mar the early Indian landscape. The Indian never developed that cleverness of his white brother. 
The Indian was without schools that teach nothing, hospitals that over­charge, or fire departments that arrive after the fire has done its work. He had no standing army enslaved by a monthly stipend. There were no courts, gallows, no public executioners in Savagedom; no feeble-minded class; no "400"; no crooked politicians; no problems of church and state; no breadlines; no smog; no Mace; no clubbings; no police brutality to fight against; no bill collec­tors; no high-priced doctors and lawyers; and no tax collectors hounding them or ready to take away their life's savings. There were no graduates of medicine or theology to make mer­chandise of his body and soul; and there was no criminal class. 
There was little disease before the White Man came. The Indian, as even his enemies admitted, was, as a rule, courteous, honest, and sincere. In his home his voice was low, his manners gentle. He kept his belongings in order and no one of his tribe would ever think of entering his home and stealing anything. 
"Their houses were open day and night," said Lewis H. Morgan in his book, The League Of The Iriquois, "not only to each other but also to the wayfarer and stranger." A hungry visit?r might take food, but that considered stealing. Indians are :asnot ?e~a_use white people put a bun lllazcd In_Jail when ~e takes food for hi~~ wit~ou~ paym~ for it. Everyone had basic nght to hve. 1 
Their livable qualities prevented small quarrels and did away with the need for petty police work. "Reason" was their club, their Mace and police dogs. 
Whatever the Indian ate he found in ~ature's own lar~er, or he produced it himself through his form ofagriculture. He had no farmer class, engaged solely in producing food. He had no cars or ships to bring tea from China, coffee from Bra_zil, s~gar from Cuba, oranges from Cahforma, wheat from prairies to cities. He had no tall grain elevators for storing surplus crops from year to year. He had nothing but the generosity of Nature to assure him of sufficient food and nothing but a few scanty bagsful tucked away when that generosity failed. 
By what miracle force did this savage social structure hold together? In the light of all philosophies of civiliz.ation, human organization could cohere without the credenta and impedimenta en umbered above; yet the Indian was in blissful ignorance of the high state of "perfection" he missed. . . . 
The Indian is a Sphinx. His on81!1 15 shrouded in mystery but his soul ~ves on. In the American Indian there IS 8 message if only the White Man will take the time to listen. 
To this very day -even after the "uprising" at Wounded Knee and~ takeover at Alcatraz Island (th;"' greatest modern achievements) t~e n­dian is wholly misunderstood. ~e i:,:; after all, different from his inc brother. Both drink and ~Id. 
boisterous ready to take on the un­
, · the

In this respect, both share i~ n is 00 varnished truth. But the India re 
· · no 111°
more perfect, no more ~icious, Heisin barbarious than the White Man. 
• 
er touch with nature, is more cJoSrageous, more independent and far coUre hospitable. He is the most fll~gious of human beings. Natural \gion, not one borrowed or learned ~;orn the_white m~n's b~oks, is his G~d. f{is instincts gmde him, much like 10day's youth. 
fhe Indian has no formalities of written l~w n~r. s!ated times fo: h~s 
orshippmg. D1vm1ty surrounds him; 1s \:er present, ever manifest. With all his ~aults, his life is one continuous prayer. 
Without "education" or "culture," as these terms are used by the Caucasian, the Indian presents a race of rare char­acteristics, baffling fortitude and strength of resistance against an array of destroying influences such as have swept empires into oblivion. These men of "savage" mold spurn the hypocrite. 
Endowed with clear perception and courageous hearts, they live the simple Jife ~ honest, bare of breast and limb, with calm resolution and fixed purpose. 
The Indian is not an infidel; not a blasphemer. In his true ianguage there is no profanity -unless White Man's whiskey brought it on. He is not naturally our enemy. If we trusted him, he would have been well civilized long ago and not hung up on a reservation. Now he mistrusts White Man -religion and all. The story of the White Man's great redeemer appeals to him and com­mands his respect and admiration. Certain church rites have fascination for his romantic moods. Because of this, many young Indians have been led by the hand of modern church services. "Part false, all false," he reasons. "Once untrue, never true." 
The White Man praises God and doubts him in the same breath. 
Thus the white Christian is barred from the Indian's confidence and respect. Missionaries have taken their toll a.nd have Christianized those In­dians unable to reason for themselves. Civilization -another name for egotism and agression -stamp him as a pagan and superstitious; regards him as a mere object of contempt, an obstruc­tion in the giant pathway to "progress." The government is "at a loss" for what to do about the Indian's plight, exploited as they are by the "do-gooders." 
Too much has been said and written of Indian cruelties and tortures. But they were never too cruel and torture conscious until our "Puritan" ancestors, the Spanish and the French came to shower upon the Indian such tortures as 
(see page 30) 

: FOR A : : FRIEND... : : AGI FT : : SUBSCRIPTION : 
• 

One-year gift subscription to 



indian \loicc 
* Canada and other countries add $1.00 for postage. 
To: IND/AN VOICE. P.O. BOX 2033, SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 
•
•
•
•
•
.• .·. : .
.... .
• 

_______....;p__
• 

I am enclosing a check or money order for $__for____subscriptions. 
•
•

.1 sub.7.50 . 2subs.15.00 . 3subs.22.00 
•

My name is·---------,----.-~-----------·a....a
(please pnnt) 
•

Address;_________________________
•

c;ty. srare__________ 
• 

. PLEASE ENTER MY OWN SUBSCRIPTION, ALSO. 
• 
•

. year gift to:________1....,..
• 

Address---------1-• 
City.__________,.. 
State_____---•
• 
14 IND/AN VOICE 


The retention rate for the American Indian student in higher education is appalling, and I feel that all ofus who are working with Indian students should be concerned about this. Not only should we be concerned, but we should be trying to correct the situation . . 
I have worked with Indian students at three colleges in the San Francisco Bay area, and have also been an Indian student myself at two ofthese institutions. The thing that has struck me in my experiences in these institutions is the sameness of the experience of the Indian students at all three institutions, although the institutions are quite dissimilar. One is the University of California at Berkeley, a huge, impersonal, but quite popular campus of the prestigious University of California system. The second is Stanford University, one ofthe prestigious American universities, and a private institution. The third is California State University at Hayward, where I am now teaching, which is one of nineteen campuses of the California State College and University system. 
At all three institutions, the Indian students have financial problems, problems of personal psychological adjustment, problems of finding relevance in the higher educational experience, problems of dealing with administrators overloaded with work and unable to give them the kind of personal attention they expect. 
Historically, the interfa~e between the Indian student representing the Indian community with its culturally different heritage, and the institutions of higher education representing a European cultural ·heritage, has been one of little or no concern. The numbers of Indian students in these institutions until four years ago was miniscule; many of the graduates, if not most, really did not perceive themselves as being from the Indian community, as evidenced by their moving away from the reservation culture upon graduation; and the impact of the institution upon the Indian com­munities was slight. 
But the situation in the past five years is one both qualitatively and quantitatively different from the previous situation. The Indian student of the present is often as not heavily influenced by the youth organizations centering around Indians -the National Youth Council, the American Indian Movement, the United Native Americans, just to name a few. The number of these Indian-oriented organizations probably runs over one hundred, and they represent a movement toward revitalizing Indian com­munities that may make it possible for the Indian student to comply with the requirements for achievement that are structured by the institutions, and at the same time, not be forced to turn his back on his native heritage and background. The possibilities for bringing about the neces­sary restructuring of colleges are uncertain, but more and 
A look at past and present educat· 
. Iona1 

programs with a suggested so/uti
on. 

more the developments seem to be pointing to the g 
· · · · rowthofI d. 
n _ian programs m 1_nst1tut10ns of higher learning aero h
88 t e

nation and the contment. 
In light of the present situation, it seems to me th t sho~ld be trying ~o unde_rst~nd ~nd plan for the success ~ft~: Ind_1an student m the mst1tut10n~ of higher learning. The va~10us programs ofthe Grea~ So~1ety ~ perceive to be by and 
large failures~ because of th~1r failure 1~ bringing about the full cooperation . of the Indian people m their workings. It may be that the time has come for community development if it is to be successful, to start with the people themselves' helping them to develop the skills they need to run theiro~ lives. With a 75% dropout rate, it seems doubtful to me that these efforts will have much effect, except to produce a generation of people further frustrated in their attempts to deal with institutions of the dominant society. 
One of the basic needs is for research, both basic and theoretical, into the factors producing the high dropout rate. I will try here to outline some of the areas that seem to me to be in need of research. I do not imply that the results will in and of themselves make a difference, but the results should widen our knowledge of what the problems are, and make us more equipped to cope with them at the policy-making level. 
Basic research is needed in two areas: assessment of the overall financial, retention, and curriculum picture, and evaluation of the effects of innovative approaches, peer and professional counseling, and innovative curriculum on the performance and success of the Indian student. 
In a study I conducted last year of the Indian student in college in California, we learned that the Indian student is in a basically different financial situation than most other minority students and students from the dominant society. Only in about 10 percent ofthe cases does the Indian student have any income from the home to help him through ~~hool. It became clear that for the majority, making the dec1~1on to enter college has many drawbacks, the major one bemg the giving up ofearning power for the family, earning power that is sorely needed in many cases. The Indian student many times does not have only himself to support, but the add~ burden of helping to support his family of origin. Thus;' might seem a bad investment of monies fr~m ~~ Educational Opportunity Program, Bureau of Indian fairs scholarships, and tribal scholarships, to gra~t mone! which in three cases out of four is going to contnbute to dropout rather than to a successful student. be 
I believe it is important for the future for us to ~s:~s:nd reasons for the high dropout rate in order t? cope w~tl }fnan­to ameliorate it. One of the main reasons 1s proba. Y and cial, but this is complicated by cultural considerauonS, 
(see page 25) 

parryl Wilson, acting for and presenting the . elders of his tribe, has :come the wamor leader of the Pit River ation. He and his people have won three seperate court cases from the P.G. & E. during the past three 7ears. Wi!son's poetry d'scloses one of the widest rangmg talents in ~ntempor~ry In~ian wr~ting. He possesses a passionate ~ntensi~y which can sear to the heart of his subJect, but which he can rnodulate to the lyric tenderness of water lapping on a beach. Both as a leader and as a 
poet. Darryl Wilson is one of our upcoming young Indians. 
NATIVE AMERICAN POETRY 
In ragged and a second-handed and shoes worn very thin 
He dreamed beyond tomorrow through darknesses and light to distant drumming i1,pon green-golden p 
So 

You a body
Mn•• MA/>,... 
You did not touch the Indian Spirit that moves upon the silence of it a 
You have not dimmed his memory And you cannot. change his mind for his mind is all that ever cou 
You cannot change what he believes for his belief is part of nature-like the sun like rains upon green fores ts like rainbows in blue skies 
and moon upon the darkness-which is all 
like fire of brilliant morning sun and laughter of our children like songs upon evenings summer time 
Your laws do not restrict his "life" 
for he dwells beyond tomorrow as he dreams he is a part offreedom every day ... though he is on your corner don't forget to please remember he's not standing in rains and sunshine all alone 

He has a law to live with .. . it is the power of all life that placed earth just close enough to sun that makes a spider weave a net, and swallow build a nes 
. As we circle in own darkness of it all 
He will always live . .. 
And dream as those before and he will speak to ears of wisdom in his tongue and wisdom will reveal him truths 
secrets of deeds fulfilled that, america, will never come to you . .. 
So America! 
Go on and forget him use your strength and all your power But don't tell him for he doesn't have to know 
-DARRYL WILSON 
( Pitt River) 

16 IND/AN VOICE 

The Only Treaty Never Broken 
Great Spirit hear the call of the Indian heart in the stone house dark and cold, f We want the land and to be left alone, I I they took it because they wanted the gold, ~ / 

~~ 
I've gotta get back to the land I love, 

\
the mountains the river the plain, To live with the spirits in harmony 
to defend the land again, ( 

The old ones believed there were papers sealed---., and signed by a white man's hand, ~~~-­
1 
But there is no treaty, by "Indian Title" ~ it is still Pitt River land, 
-

For an Indian doesn't sell the mother he loves the mother that gives him life, Any more than he sells his only son, or the spirit of his tender wife 
In the schools I have read your history books speaking only of confusion and of lies, Pitt River will only belong to my people for as long as the snow goose flies, 
The white man has written many thousand book to prove the land his own, But for all time my people were here, it is proven by our ancient bones, 
Mr. Jailor bring the key to this coyote den that's cold, unfriendly and dark, Let me go to the place where the sun shines warm and the singing of the meadow lark, 
I've gotta get back to the land I love to the banks of the big Pitt River, To the beating of drums and the spearing of fish and the frying of the mule deer's liver, 
' 


~ 000 Spirit 
.tlP, Sister of Brother Sun 
i,t g/o wi~g in vast ~arkness . painting mountains and valleys silver and waves upon waters also 
I,adY of ni?ht . changing in seasons so People mzght remember those things 0 cing between clouds
/\a .
oancing upon quzet waters Resting upon edg_e off?rest 
and mountain horizon Singing softly songs of quiet to silence of universe capturing heart offour-footers 
and those moving through life with four-footers 
Hold hearts of my people softly 

Silver bubble looking upon earth and fields of earth giving silent power to seeds longing to look at Brother sun and put fruit upon earth, 
Do you often wonder why man lives thinking of Death, and preparing to die Instead ofpraying over life and preparin~ to live? 

Is this why you look not away from earth­Because you wonder? 
Eternal ocean worshipping you alone of all stars reminds us ofyour hidden power and tells us ofyour place in all darkness 
Owl and loon call from mountain . and overdancing waters of sleeping lake 
In languages of all ancestors they speak long ofyour beauty and speak far into night of your begznmng when mole-of-broken-wrists placed you just where you are 
long ago  
My people know you look over ancestral territory  
watching for sacred fires  
listening to prayers in silence of hearts  
dreaming ofgood seasons for all people  Moon  
remember always that we know ofyour movements  
We have watched you looking upon our council  and believe your changing pattern will never change  
in our journey through life  
Corn is planted upon your changing believing it will grow strong  
Prayers are put upon darkness for your ears alone  
Moon walks with us through forests so we do not travel alone  
Moon swims with us upon dark waters  
Moon shines upon earth so we do not wander  
making Ocean breathe  
and gathering of ocean-food is good  
Moon  
In silence ofyour heart  
you know secrets ofsilences of our hearts  
for our People have taken council with you  
b  since the beginning and we must for all seasons you travel with us ...  

18 IND/AN VOICE 



Vernon Bellecourt is the National Director ofthe American Indian Movement. He has been touring the country, giving talks at various universities and elsewhere, explaining to Americans what the actual Indian situation is, and about The American Indian Movement and its stand at Wounded Knee. Following is the text of his Stan/ord University March 15, 1973 speech, the first of two parts. 
I will speak tonight of the growth of the American Indian Movement and of how its development, along with the development of the government's treatment of Indian People, led to the confrontation at Wounded Knee. 
Hopefully, after I finish speaking, you will have a better understanding of exactly what the American Indian Movement is all about, and what the situation is in regards to the present activities which have taken place in South Dakota. 
Because we recognize that many of the issues have been clouded, we have continually tried to indicate to the press exactly what the issues are, but to no avail. The issues are these: We are demanding that Senator Wm. Fullbright's 
Foreign Relations Committee immediately begin to deal with 371 congressi9nally ratified treaties with various Indian nations, that have been broken, contributing to the poverty conditions which prevail among Indians today. We are also asking that a congressional investigation be launched immediately, investigating the corruptive •practices of the Department of the Interior, and the Bureau of Indian Af­fairs, who have taken a trust responsibility toward the Indian Nations. 
You must understand something about these treaties, that within the treaties, in consideration of us turning over our lands, the government agreed to take care of the Indian people. They agreed to take care of their "children". Thus was started the paternalistic attitude that has been very detrimental to our people ever since. Within that trust res­ponsibility they have once again, and continually failed us. We are stating that the conditions in which the Indian People, the sovereign people in this our land, are forced to live under, is an indictment against the government that they have totally failed the Indian People. 
Now we recognize that the change has to come about, from us. We recognize that Indian People must stand up and bring about these changes themselves, and that is why the American Indian Movement was formed in 1968. That is why we are involved in many of these controversial issues, starting primarily with the Bureau of Indian Affairs oc­cupation of November 1, through our campaign in Custer., South Dakota, later in Rapid City, South Dakota, and finally our stand at Wounded Knee. 

~ I am gomg to atlempt to explain to you some of th f:www and details, some of the issues, some of the things the acts 
k. 1 ·11 h at are
t~ mg pda~e, s~ youAw1d ave a cle~rer understanding ofour aims an s1tuat10n. n , we are askmg you to offer you port for this very worthwhile cause. rsup-
We have already mustered a great deal of supp throughout the land. We have once again gained the supp 0~ of several civil rights movements _in the country. We h:ve total support from many ofthe Chicano organizations in the ~outhwest. We have and have had Dr. Ralph Abernathy in­side Wounded Knee. The Southern Christian Leadership Confe_ren~e, Jesse J~ckson from P. U.S.H., and several other orgamzattons of this nature are supporting us. What has happened at Wounded Knee is that we have been able to bind all of these organizations into a coalition. 
The confrontation at Wounded Knee is not primarily with the United States Government, or with the Justice Department, or the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Most im­portantly, it is a confrontation with the conscience of America, and a confrontation with the conscience of the world. The book, "Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee", at the present time is a best seller throughout Europe, and for the past week Wounded Knee has been a number one story throughout the world. This was the primary reason for forming the American Indian Movement into an organization that would surface these issues, and would, in fact, draw that kind of attention from people in this country who know very little or nothing about the Indian people. Who know very little about the conditions under which many of our people are forced to live. We are hoping that this talk will shed some light on the issues for you, so that you can make a better determination as to whether or not you want to support the effort at Wounded Knee. 
ln add1t1on to the issues and the demands that have been made on the government, we encounter the problem t_h~t, for the most part, Washington has been totally insens1t~ve. A statement was made by a high Department ofthe Intenorof­ficial that the government and the Department ~f the Interior would not deal with the "militant" Indians until they had lain down their rifles. We can only point out to t~at Person (who must be scholastically retarded in Indian ~is­
' I d~n
tory), that eighty-three years ago at Wounded Knee, n people laid down their rifles, and we have~ mass grav~~ attest to the folly ofthat kind oftrust in American _hono~-e have learned to live with that kind of deceit an w understand it very clearly. The issue is not whether we a: holding guns at the heads of this nation, or whet~er ::t~e holding guns at the head of anyone. The fact remami th last have, in our land, had the gun held to our heads fort e 
hundred and eighty-two years. We have had our coun­(ollfand our whole way oflife, destroyed by this government. 1rY,recognize very clearly that the same type ofgun was held wehe head of the sovereign peoples of Vietnam and forced 31 \11 into signing a peace treaty. So when we see a country10\ was born on violence, that lives on violence, that prac­t~a violence as a way oflife, and then turns around and tells 
uces f ·11 · h · 
to lay our guns down be ore they wi negotiate, t ere is no 

us in the world that we are going to do that! 
waJe have already indicated at Wounded Knee, that unless 
government sits down to meaningful negotiations with 

ine they have one of two alternatives: to murder us all or to
~:~k off and pull the ~ederal troops ~way from w.oun~ed 
Knee. This last alternative, ofcourse will defuse the ~ituat10n 
·rnrnediately. But you know that the EGO of this power 
\ructure that has to have honorable victory, and will bomb 
;he hell out of people to have honorable victory, is not going 
IO do that. This is the kind of mentality that we are dealing 
with at Wounded Knee. . 
Imagine this, we have two hundred and fifty poor Oglala 
people with twenty-two rifles taped together at the stocks, 
with two or three rounds ofammunition per gun, and yet the 
mentality of the government had the Eighty-second Air­
bourne mobilized in North Carolina. They had a whole jet 
fighter wing from Ellsworth Air Force Base in Rapid City, 
south Dakota, ready to move out. In fact, they flew one 
sortie over Wounded Knee. Twojets flew over the place, and 
1hey said it was a "reconnaissance mission". 
It is unreal that we have confronted the military might of 
this country, and have stopped them, but it was only through 
the massive support of people like yourselves throughout 
this country that another Wounded Knee massacre was 
prevented. We are sure of that. It was only because the 
churches, and various leaders of church denominations 
stood up and told the President of the United States not to 
use violence at Wounded Knee, that we are still there. We 
recognize that unless we continue to gain the support of 
people in America, that there could possibly be yet another 
Wounded Knee massacre. 
I can understand that there's a great fear in this country of us because all these years we have been portrayed as that proud and noble savage up on the bluff looking down over the valleys, keeping our mouths shut-not saying a word-we were the good Indians. Now, all of a sudden, because a few Indians start speaking out and saying we are tired of tyranny, we are tired of a government in our country wli ;_, continues to rip us off for our land, and our resources, we are tired of a government who continues to make war from our land upon others throughout the world, we become the militant, the radical, the extremist and many other names of that kind which they have called us. We recognize that that has become our "role". 
We also realize that we have among the Americans a ~ociety of people who, when they were children, were born Into such attitudes-were so born into an atmosphere of racism that they don't even realize that it exists. There are still many, many people among them who encourage their children-their grandchildren to buy guns and play cowboys and Indians with the cowboys always winning, and teaching them that this is only right and good! And then they go to school and start reading racist books about the "Red Savages", the "Red Devils"-books that paint a description of us that we were people without the ability to com­Prehend-that we were dumb, animal-like people. 
Then they go home and start watching the movies on TV about us-or they go to the movie house and see cowboy and 
INDfAN VOICE 19 

Indian movies that so depict us, with the result that we have now a whole generation of people who not only know nothing about us, but who have, in fact, a sordidly distorted picture of the Indian. 
I am sure, for example, that not many of you people out there even know how many of us Indian people even exist in this land. If I told you that it was only between 800,000 to 1,000,000 you would probably be shocked. But back, 483 years ago, when the first White Man landed on our shores, it was also estimated that we had between 800,000 to 1,000,000 people. Now, five generations later we still have about that number of people. At the turn of the last century, however, we were diminished down to 220,000. 
So genocide didn't start in Poland, or Dachau, or Belsen-the death marches did not start in Bataan. The death marches started in the Georgian states when our proud Cherokee Nation was destroyed. The death marches started from Fort Sumner to Fort Defiance. The death marches started at Cheyenne. The massacres of My Lai did not start at My Lai-that's not at all a new thing for America. We had similar massacres at Washita Creek, and Sand Creek, and Wounded Knee. So we recognize that we are living with, and always have lived with, the violent society. Thus, when we stand up and start to fight a little bit and find ourselves condemned as being "violent", we find it quite ironic and can't quite understand it. 

But then we do realize that there is a great fear of Indian people in this country because each and every person tn that country knows what they have done to their "Red Children". They know the conditions which they have brutally forced upon the sovereign people here so that they, the sovereign people, who should be the richest people in the world, are now, in fact, the poorest people in the world. So I suspect that the fear that Americans have for us today is only gauged by those realizations and attitudes. 
But that fear is groundless as long as we can somehow succeed, such as with our stand at Wounded Knee, to reach the conscience of America and engage them in helping us to regain our sovereign rights. For example, we went to Custer, South Dakota, because at Buffalo Gap, Wesley Bad Heart Bull, an Oglala, was murdered. His murderers, who were non-Indian, were arrested and one of them was charged arbitrarily by a county attorney with second degree man­slaughter! All the facts that were presented showed that this man and his three brothers had accosted Wesley Bad Heart Bull on the street and attempted to beat him up. But he did OK, so they threatened him with, "Well, we'll get you tomorrow, we'll get you . .." And the next day they came back and got him. They stuck a knife in him and killed him. Yet the man was charged with manslaughter! 
In another county up there, Harold With Horn, Jr. was alleged to have been in the approximate area where a White woman was found dead. On the testimony ofsomebody who 
(see page 26) 

20 IND/AN VOICE 



HAWAI IAN NATIVES WANT COMPENSATION FOR ABORIGINAL LANDS 
Washington, DC's newest Native lob­byist is a beautiful 22-year-old Hawaiian girl named Pua DeMillo whose soft voice masks an iron-willed determination to seek justice for the Hawaiian Native's loss of millions of acres in the Aloha State. 
Pua works for the year-old Aboriginal Land of Hawaiian Ancestry (ALOHA) organization which was created to seek compensation for land taken from the Hawaiian Natives at the time of annexation of Hawaii by the 
U.S. in 1898. The organization, founded by Pua's mother Louisa Rice, also wants some of the lands still in the public domain restored to Hawaiian Native ownership. 
According to Pua, there are currently 200,000 Native Hawaiians in the Pacific paradise -and only about 2,000 are full-blood Hawaiian. The ALOHA organization has an enrolled member­ship of 25,000. Pua is half Native and half Portuguese. 
The Hawaiian Natives' quest for reparations and restoration began in earnest when they saw the successful prosecution of the Alaska Native land claims settlement. In fact, the Alaska Native lobbyists here have taken a sort of "voice of experience," "big brother" role in assisting the Natives of Hawaii in penetrating the Potomac psyche. 
The similarities and differences between the Alaska and Hawaii Native experiences at the hands of American people are presently being explored by the Hawaiian congressional delegation who support the Native cause, with a view toward introducing legislation which would right the wrongs done to these people. 
Until 1893, the Hawaiian Natives were governed by a monarchy whose last queen was Liliuokalani. The Queen was deposed by a group of white revolutionaries whose members in­cluded some of the white missionaries who came to save the Natives' souls. The 

U.S. assisted in the destruction of the Native government by sending bat­tleships and marines to the aid of the revolutionaries. 
A virtual prisoner in her own home for two years, the Queen finally agreed to give up her throne and the inde­pendence of the Hawaiian people in exchange for a promise from the newly created provisional government that her people would be treated justly. She could exact such a bargain because the Hawaiian Natives at the time vastly out­numbered the revolutionaries and the marines. In 1898 the residents of Hawaii voted to be annexed by the U.S. The Natives did not support the annexation. 
Naturally, 80 years later, the descen­dants of the white missionaries and revolutionaries own the islands and the Natives have been left as fourth-class c1t1zens financially, politically and socially in their own land. 
Pua tells an interesting story of her mother's visit to one of the powerful wealthy descendants of the old mission­aries to ask him to assist in the Native fight to regain their heritage. The plutocrat rebuked her sternly for going about saying the missionaries stole the land from the Natives. He said he did not believe in the Native cause because he did not feel they had a legitimate claim to any compensation or land, and warned her not to stir up trouble. 
As soon as he had finished speaking, one of Hawaii's periodic earthquakes erupted and the skyscraper in which he had his offices began to sway dangerously. He told Pua's mother: 
"I think the Aumahuahs (guardian angels) are watching over you." Pua's mother warned sweetly: "I know they are." 
The Hawaiian Natives have secured the assistance of the same legal firm which helped the Alaska Natives so successfully, the McCutcheon & Gruening Firm of Anchorage, Alaska. The Natives also have former Interior Secretary Stewart Udall in their corner. 
Pua entertained as a hula dancer for four years with the Don Ho nightclub group. She stopped entertaining so that she could devote full time to work on the Hawaiian Native claims settlement. The ALOHA organization for which she now works is finding it difficult to get financing, so one of her duties in town, besides researching Native Hawaiian history in the National Archives, was to seek financial assistance for the Hawaiian Native efforts. 
San Francisco, Cal. -(AIPA) -In­dian Actress Sacheen Littlefeather, who posed in the nude for a three-pa~e full­color photo essay in the October I!~u~ of Playboy magazine, gets some cnt1c1sm for her decision to appear nude but says she has no regrets. . 
"I still have the same friends and ~~e the same way," she says, "but maybe~ still too soon to tell. One older Ind woman told me recently, 'Indian wome: don't pose in the nude.' That's a bu~c 
of bull. Indian  women  do everyth:  
everybody  else  does.  They  sm  in  
Marlboro  cigarettes,  they  fly  
(see page 2B)  




"We shall hear to-night of one good deed done by U nktomee," BEGINS TI-IE OLD TEACHER[ WHEN ALL ARE IN THEIR PLACE longer ago than any one can remember, no one was more feared and dreaded than Eya, the Glutton, the devouring spirit that wento to and from upon the earth, able to draw all living cre~tu~es into his hideous, 
pen mouth! His form was monstrous and ternfymg. No one seemed ~o know what he feared, or how he might be overcome. Whole tribes of people were swallowed up by him, and there was no help! 
"At last came Unktomee, and by his quick wit and genial ways 
ot the better of this enemy of our race. He is very hard to kill, for he ~ften comes to life again after he has ~een left for dead._ Per~aps by Eya is meant the terrible hunger, or the sickness that runs hke fire from lodge to lodge and sweeps away whole villages." 

Eya the Devourer 

Once upon a time, an old woman who was gathering wood found a lost babe deep in the forest, and bringing him to the camp, gave him to the chiefs pretty daughter. The girl, who was very tenderhearted, took the child and cared for him as her own. 
She fed hirn often, but he wasnever satisfied and continually cried for more. When he screamed, his mouth stretched from ear to ear, and far down his red throat she seemed to see a great company of people strug­gling in confusion. However, she told no one, but patiently tended the strange child and carried him about with her everywhere. 
At dead of night, when all in the lodge were asleep, the tender-hearted maiden was . aroused by the crying of her babe. As she bent over him, there seemed to come from his wide­open mouth, as if from the depths of the earth, the far-off voices of many people in distress. 
Then at last she went and awoke the chief, her father, and said to him: 



-tr -tr
* *
* 
* * • 
. _,., . ~--)r 

. --·----.ii,." ::=--...· 
~·-.,..., .. 
"Father come and listen to the voice of my babe!" He listened for a moment and ex­claimed in horror: 
"My child, this is Eya, he who devours all things, even whole vil­lages! This that we hear is the crying of the people whom he has swallowed. Now he has taken the form of an innocent babe and is come to destroy us! 
"We must steal away quietly while he sleeps, and travel fast and far be­fore morning." 
In whispers they aroused the sleep­ing people, and all broke camp without disturbing the child, who once more selpt in the chiefs teepee, which they left still standing. 
All night they travelled at their best pace, and when morning came, they had come to a wide and deep river. Here U nktomee, the crafty one, came to meet them, smiling and rubbing his hands. · 
When he had learned what caused 
the people of a whole village to flee 
in the night, he kindly offered to help 
.. .. .. .. .. 
them against their powerful enemy. Terrified though they were, they were even then unwilling, for they feared lest he might play some trick upon them; but U nktomee persisted, and went back upon their trail to meet the Devourer. 
He had not gone far before he saw Eya hastening after the fleeing ones, his ugly mouth gaping widely and his great, unwieldy body supported by a pair of feeble legs that tottered under its weitht. 
"Where are you going, younger brother?" asked Unktomee, pleasant­ly. 
"How dare you call me younger brother?" angrily returned the ohter. "Do you not know that I was the first one created upon the solid earth?" 
"If that is so, I must be older than you," replied Unktomee, in his good­natured way, "for I was created upon the face of the water, before the dry land itself! I know whom you seek, younger brother, and am come out to help you. 
"Those foolish ones whom you are following are encamped on the river close at hand, and I will lead you to them presently. They cannot es­cape you. Why not rest a little now, and refresh yourself with the deli­cacy that I have prepared for you? See, these human ears, nicely dried for your meal!" 
So saying, Unktomee pointed to a great heap of mussel shells that lay upon the hill-top. The greedy monster was deceived, and hastily swallowed the shells, which caused him such distress that he was help­less, and was easily dispatched by the men of the village, who now came out to kill him. No sooner had they cut open his enormous body with their knives, than a large company of people issued forth upon the plain, and began dancing and singing songs of praise for their deliverance. 

22 IND/AN VOICE 

New Indian Policies of the Federal Government 
(from page 4) 
Interior. Indian tribal organization is previously defined in Section I as being "the elected body of an Indian tribe or community" and including "legally established organizations which are controlled by one or more such bodies." It was pointed out in the 1970 NCIO hearings that it was unclear in the 1970 proposal whether the tribes or tribal governing bodies would have the right to actually vote to take over a program and this still remains unclear. Since some tribes are divided into factions, some of which strongly disagree with or, in some cases, simply do not recognize the authority oftribal councils or other groups recognized by the federal government, those tribes would prefer that the entire tribe decide on take over, or a group other than the tribal council. 
Section 2(a) specifies that tum-over of programs to a tribal council could not be made until it has obtained public liability insurance, motor vehicle insurance, or any other insurance required by other organizations performing the same activities. Tribal immunity to suits would be waived but only to the extent of the coverage required by the Secretary. Senate Subcommittee on Indian Affairs sources indicate that Jackson's contracting bill may be amended to require insurance to contracting ttibes in order to protect them, but there would be no mention ofsovereign immunity. In the 1972 hearings on the earlier Nixon take-over bill and Jackson-Allott contracting bill, Frank Ducheneaux, then a consultant for the National Congress of American Indians and now staff counsel ofthe House Subcommittee on Indian Affairs, discussed the threat tribes now face of losing their sovereign immunity from suit. He mentioned a 1971 case, Lancassir V. Leekity, which involved an Indian complaint of police brutality as a violation of the Indian Bill of Rights of the 1968 Civil Rights Act. In that case, a New Mexico Cistrict Court ruled that because the tribe involved had contracted with the BIA for operation of the law and order services, the tribe had also waived tribal immunity from suit. Ducheneaux said: 
"It never fails. Every time the Indian people win an opportunity to take over control of their own destinies and to truly govern themselves, the promise turns out to have a hook in it which can destroy the tribes. Ifthe law becomes settled that a tribe, when contracting for services on its reservations waives its sovereign immunity with respect to the scope ofthat contract, the tribes will refuse to avail themselves of this opportunity." 
Ducheneaux testified that NCAI supported the alternate Jackson bill rather than the Administration bills. 
Section 2(b) provides that during the period preceding or immediately subsequent to any transfer, the Secretary would give assistance requested by a tribe other than financial. This is one of the major deficiencies of the earlier 1970 bill which was not corrected in this later version although in the NCIO hearings, tribes expressed the need for funds to make preparations for take-over of programs. 
Section l(d) provides for retrocession or return of a program taken over by a tribe to the Secretary within 120 days after a tribal request; this action would not prejudice the tribe's right to reassume control of that program at a later date. In the NCIO hearings, some tribes wondered if the government would be willing to take back programs since in the past, it had sometimes refused to do so. For instance, when the Blackfeet wanted to return their law and order 


program to the government because it was ina funded, the government refused to accept it dequately 
Section 2(e) allows the Secretary to reassu~ prograi:n, after giving notice and hearing to : ct~:ro~ of a determmes that there has been a violation of : . e, if he 
CIVIi right

endangerment of health, safety, or the "gross ne Ii ,, s, mismanagement of federal funds for a progr!;.ence . or would resume control after corrective action had b ' a tribe Apparently the government could reassume coe;n taken.
1

program without tribal consent. n ro of a 
Section 2(f) provides that in the allocation of ­
1

funds, tribes assuming contr~l of programs or ret~~:~a~Je programs would be treated m the same manne dhmg
Id h b ·f r as t ey
wbotuh ave een 1 cTohntrol hhad ~een_continously maintained 
y . e government. us, t ere 1s still no guarantee to tribe takmg over programs that they would be funded h s 
I 

NCIO hearings, tribesexprt::ssed the beliefthatsincefu~1ne depends upon the vagaries of the Congress· gl
. . . 1ona 
aprrop~1at10ns C?mm1tt~es, there should be some langua e wntten mto the bill assunng adequate funding for progra g Section 3 provides that upon tribal request, the Secretms. 
· 1 · · 1 · ary
couId deta~ a~y c1v1 service employee for a period up to ISO days to assist m take-over of a _Progra~; this period could be extended up to 180 days. Indians pomted out in the NCIQ hearings that it is unclear who would pay the salary of this assistant to the tribe. HEW personnel could be similarly detailed, according to Section 4. 
Section 5 provides · "Nothing in this Act shall be interpreted as authorizing or requiring the termination of any existing trust responsibility of the United States with respect to Indians." 

The Jackson Alternative 
"The Indian Self-determination and Educational Reform 
Act of 1973," S.1017, is sponsored by Senator Henry 
Jackson, Chairman of the Senate Interior Committee, for 
himself, Senator James Abourezk, and Senator Metcalf. It 
provides in Ttile 1 for the Secretary of the Interior "in his 
discretion" and upon tribal request to enter into contncts 
with a tribal organization. Section 103 provides for the 
Secretary of HEW to contract with a tribal organization 
upon request. "Indian tribe" and "tribal organization" are 
defined in the same manner as in the Administration bill, 
S.1343, meaning that only federally recognized tribes would 
be included in this act. An amendment may be added to 
include certain non-elected governing bodies since 16 ofthe 
pueblos do not elect their governors but they are chosen by 
each pueblo's regligious leader. Governors, in turn, choose 
tribal council members. 
Section 104 is an extremely important inclusion in this.bill 
because it provides for grants to tribes for "plannm~, 
training, evaluation, and other activities" in order to make it 
possible for such tribes to enter into contracts. No such 
grants are provided for in S.1343. In the past many tribeS 
who desired contracts could not get them because they 
simply did not have the funds for necessary manage~ent 
training or other needs. In recent years OEO has provided 
direct grants to local Indian community development groups 
for these needs. Because the Interior Department does _not 
have such authority, recently is has proposed legisl~tton, 
2038 and H.R.9011, providing general grant authority to 
funnel bloc grants to tribal governments. . . ·ce 
Section 105 provides for detailing of any cavil servl.
•st ID
employee up to 180 days upon tribal request to assid be 
programs contracted; the period of assistance coul t of 
extended up to 90 days if the tribes shows need. The ios 
detailing this employee would be taken into account in 
tanning the contracts or grants. Psection 106(a) provides that contracts would follow all federal contract laws according to Federal Procurement I{egulations except that contracts may be negotiated without advertising. Also, contracts may be negotiated without compliance with the bonding requirements of the ~iller Act of 1935. Senate Subcommittee on Indian Affairs 
0urces indicate that in the next write-up of S.1017 an :rnendment may be added which would allow the Secretaries of Interior and HEW to develop contracting regulations different from those in the Federal Procurement Act and ,nore in keeping with the special circumstances of tribes. federal contracting regulations were adopted originally to protect the government in the procurement ofsupplies in the ,narket place and are very detailed and complicated and sometimes result in unnecessarily lengthy negotiations. More flexible rules are needed to cover the variety of contracts to be negotiated between the government and 
tribes. In the June hearings Forrest Gerard, a Blackfeet and professional Staff Assistant to the Senate Subcommittee on Indian Affairs, commented, "Federal Procurement Regulations are so rigid that in negotiating the contracts between the Indian group and the Bureau it is necessary to develop, sometimes, 30 page documents." However, if these federal contracting regulations are relaxed, tribes might find themselves under closer scrutiny than ever. John H. Kyl, Assistant Secretary for Congressional and Public Affairs of Interior testified, "If we relax all standards, then we have to keep a closer contact, day by day, with the entire process." Section 106(b) provides that payments of any grants or under any contracts may be made in advance or by way or reimbursement in such a manner as determined by the Secretary of Interior. There is no such provision in S.1343. In the past, advance payments would have enabled more tribes to qualify for contracts, but there was no such authority under the "Buy Indian" Act. Peter MacDonald, Navajo Tribal Chairman, who supports S.1017, recommended in the Juqe hearing that the bill be amended to provide for the Secretary to include estimated costs for projected fringe benefits, overhead, and other costs in his budget for each fiscal year beginning with FY '74. MacDonald also urged that S.1017 authorize Interior and HEW to "transfer funds both within and across budget categories within the area budget at the request and with the written consent ofthe tribes to afford maximum flexibility in implementing the tribal self-determination plans." 
Section 106(c) specifies that the appropriate Secretary 
may "at the request or consent ofa tribal organization revise 
or amend any contract or grant made by him." There is no 
such provision in the Administration bill, S.1343, since 
contracts are not involved. Instead, S.1343 provides for 
government monitori11g of programs taken over by tribes. 
This provision in S.1017 would be beneficial to tribes 
because at the present time, the government can simply 
change a contract without tribal consent by authority of the 
Federal Procurement Regulations. 
Section 106(d) provides that tribes may gain contracts for 
construction of buildings, roads, sidewalks, sewers, mains, 
:tc.; tribes also can enter agreements with a non-elndian party 
or the same activities but only if they comply with 
requirements of advertising and competitive bidding 
required when such as agreement is made between the 
government and a non-Indian party. 
Peter macDonald, Navajo Tribal Chairman, recommended in the June hearings that this section be amended to require such contracts or subcontracts to contain plans assuring maximum employment and training of Indians. Provisions for implementing and monitoring these plans would be included. 
Section 106(e) provides for tribes to utilize existing buildings, hospitals, and other facilities owned by the government in carrying out a program taken over. 
Section 107 authorizes the Secretaries of Interior and HEW to "perform any and all acts and to make such rules and regulations as may be necessary and proper" to carry out the provisions of Title 1. 
Section 108 provides, in a 1973 addition to the bill, that the Secretary shall promulgate regulations relative to Title 1 within 6 months from the date the bill becomes law and that hearings must be held for all interested parties. The Interior Department has recommended that this section include the Secretary of HEW. 
Section 109 is the same as the anti-termination subsection in S.1343. 
Since tribal support for the Administration bill S.1343 and related bills is weak and the Administration itself has not urged Congressional action on them, it is likely that they will die in the 93rd Congress just as they did in the two previous Congresses. In the June hearings on these bills and the Jackson bill, S.1017, although executive reports favored Administration bills, they expressed no great disapproval of S.1017, it was stated that "certainly the enhanced ability to contract with Indian tribes which Title 1 could afford could be a very useful authority for the Department to have." 
After the hearings, S .1017 was amended and is scheduled for further amendment after August 10th. Forrest Gerard of the Senate Subcommittee on Indian Affairs indicated that there will probably be from 10-15 amendments added to this bill. It is expected that S.1017 will eventually pass the Senate floor and has a good chance of passing the House as well. Representative Lloyd Meeds, the new Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Indian Affairs has pledged "the most active Subcommittee on Indian Affairs on record," and hearings are expected to be held on the bill which Meeds has introduced, H.R.6103, although they have not yet been scheduled. H.R.6103 is identical to Title 1 of S.1017. 
S.1017 provides a rational tool to develop tribal management of programs in an orderly fashion through contracting. This can be done whenever tribes are ready and after they have utilized the grants S.1017 authorizes to prepare for assumption of contracts through management training, etc. S.1017 would not assure solution to all tribal problems, but it does seem to be one step in the right direction. 
S.1343, on the other hand, seems to be more ofan insult to tribes than a serious attempt to develop a vehicle for Indians to achieve successful management ofprograms. Even ifS.13­43 and related bills were to become law, tribes have no reason to believe that the government would suddenly be more willing to approve of their take-over plans and contracts than before. And although S.1343 provides that even without government approval tribes can take over programs, the government will closely monitor those programs. According to the Interior Department Executive Report on S.1343, "In those instances where there is a question about the adequacy ofthe Indian group to control or operate the transferred service or program, the Secretary will .monitor the program or service .... " Therefore, in what sense will the tribes be in control! A further insult to tribes is that the government could reassume control ofa program at any time it chose to and without tribal consent, according to S.1343. 
One participant in the 1970 hearings on the earlier Administration bills questioned the whole concept of turning over to tribes the same government programs which haven't worked very well in the past. Some tribes would probably want to make changes but because they would have to submit program plans periodically to the government in order to obtain funds, innovative programs might be rejected in favor of ones based on patterns familiar to officials. Of course, the larger tribes who have more money of their own would have broader options than the smaller tribes. 
One interpretation of S. 1343 is that the Administration 

has undertaken a cynical political move to throw into 
Congress a bill so vague that it could never pass but which 
would sound good to the layman unfamiliar with Indian 
affairs. The Administration certainly has had every chance 
to strengthen the bill but it chose to ignore tribal requests for 
substantial changes in the bill made in the 1970 NCIO 
hearings. Tribes especially desired provisions for job and 
management training and also assurance that 10-15 percent 
above project budgets would be provided for additional 
administrative costs accrued when taking over a program. 
The government and foundations provide such amounts to 
colleges and corporations. 
Some tribes feel that neither S.1343 nor Title 1 of S.1017 

provide the necessary tools for tribal management of 
programs since there can be no guarantee of congressional 

funding from one Congress to the next and would prefer 
direct grants rather than having to go through the process of 
contracting or take-over. In the May 1972 hearings, Mr. 
Bobo Dean, a lawyer representing the Navajos, Oglala 
Sioux, San Carlos Apaches, Hualapais, the Metlakatla 
Indian Community, and the Association of American Indian 
Affairs, suggested that while the contracting device might be 
suitable for a road construction project, the flexibility of a 
grants-in-aid program may be more suitable in assisting a 
tribe to educate its children, maintain law and order and 
conduct other programs. The tribes, however, support 
S.1017. 
HEW has provided direct grants through OEO and the 
Office of Education to tribal governments and tribal 
community development organizations, but the Interior 
Department has no such authority. In Canada, bands get 
grants directly from the Treasury Board ofCanada, which is 
equivalent to our Office of Management and Budget. Most 
of the bands have been reporting to government officials on 
how the grants are being spent, but now some tribes are 
resisting this and officials are agreeing they have the right to. 
One BIA employee in Washington sympathetic to tribal 
desires for real self-determination said recently, "O~er one­
half billion to the tribes, a mechanism should be set up to 
give them di.rect grants." He added, "How far do we have to 
go to change things on reservations! Do we have to go to 10 
billion dollars!' 
Certainly tribes should have the options of utilizing 
grants, contracting, or taking over programs. However, 
without full recognition of tribal sovereignty and inherent 
Indian rights to self-government, legislation for grants and 
contracts can only be seen as efforts by government officials 
to reduce or neutralize the discontent Indians are expressing. 
Apparently officials expect tribes to accept a declared policy 
of gradual self-determination which has countless loopholes 
in it. And tribes are to remain passive in a system which is still basically repressive. S.1017 declares gov commitment to establishment of a "meaningful Ind~rnment determination policy" but as Peter MacDonald sa-~1.1 self­June hearings, the bill is "vague and ill-defined." T~e;~the he rec~m~ended that S. 1?1_7 authorize a study on ore determmatlon and a report Jomtly submitted to Con self­the tribes and the BIA by June 30, 1974. This Natioff;s by determination ~lan would include details on tribal a!d Bet roles and funct10ns and plans and a projected budg tiA implem~ntati~n .o! self-~etermination which wou~ or responsive to individual tnbal needs. Ifthis plan is approv: by the government, then talk of self-determination fort •be will represent a policy of substance rather than ~ s 

rhetoric. ere Dr. Theodore W. Taylor, one of Marvin Franklin's por advisors and. ~IA ?eputy .co~missioner in the Ro~c~ Bennett admmistrat10n, said m a recent interview th t "There won't be a large increase in contracting even if S. Io~7is passed_." It is true that for n~merous reasons some tribes do not desire contracts. For mstance, when the BIA has contracted with. tribes in the p~st, tribal employees have often been paid lower salanes than non-tribal BIA employees doing the same work; and many Indians simplY. not to work for the BIA whom they see as merely a government instrument of control. But more importantly for tribes who desire contracts, one drawback would ~ that the power of the BIA in area offices in relation to con­tracting would still be the same as always. Although theo­retically, passage of S. 1017 would make contracting easier for tribes, contracts would still have to be approved by area directors and area contracting officers. Robert Bennett, BIA Commissioner from 1966-69, once said that through contracting 4000 BIA positions could be eliminated. But contracting has proceeded at a snail's pace, especially in the area of education. For instance, in the 60's two schools were contracted for Indian operations -Blackwater on the Pima Reservation and Rough Rock on the Navajo. But today there are only 12 Indian controlled schools in the nation. In the June hearings on S.1017 and S.1343, Birgil Kills Straight, Executive Director of the National Coalition of Indian Controlled School Boards, stated that the reason why there aren't more Indian controlled schools was that the area directors threw up barriers whenever possible when tribes desire contracts. He gave several ·examples of the difficulties Indians are constantly encountering. He said that in the Aberdeen Area, without notice to or hearings given to the private Indian group involved, "the government officials decided that the tribal government was opposed to the contract renewal and unilaterally vetoed explicit directions of the Deputy Commissioner of Indian Affairs and Commissioner of Indian Affairs to negotiate the renewal or a contract for bilingual education." In another case involving the Rock Point Boarding School, the "Navajo Area Office refused to 
contract claiming that since civil service employees were involved, 'we don't care what happens in other areas; n~ Navajos are going to contrpl civil serv~nts o~ -this 
reservations."' Mr. Kills Straight added that m the Bi_llin: Area, the "Wind River has had repeated problems trymg receive payments on its monies from the Area Officej Advance payments have been suspended..On se;e~s occasions the Indian school board had to issue c cc 
without sufficient funds in the bank ­ 1with bank approva  
-certainly no way to do business."  
(see page 29J  

Jlesearch Needs in Higher Education 
ifrorn page 14) 
Jack of motivation. Despite the announced intention of the 
bigher educational institution to include the Indian in its 
tudent body, this is not enough. Ifthis inclusion wi!l fit him 
:or life in the dominant society, at the exclusion of being 
fitted for life in his native society, then this new-found 
interest in the Indian as a college student is doomed to failure 
just as surely as the 400-year history of primary and secon­
dary education has been a failure. 
So a whole c.:argo of emotional and cultural freight is tied 
to the problem of finances, and must be researched in con­
jurction with it. The background of the successful student 
shL uld be compared with the background of the un­
snc-.:essful student in order to come up with some predictors 
01 success in higher education. Success for the college 
stude,1t from the dominant society can now be fairly well es­
ti'llated, but success for the Indian student is yet to be 
thought about in this search for predictors. 
One of the main predictors I think will emerge from such 
research is directly comparable to the criterion of financial 
burden found to be important for the student of Anglo 
society. The student who emerges from the process with the 
)east amount of financial burden is, I predict, most likely to 
succeed in finishing. But there are so many factors that it 
may be a combination of things which in the end play a part. 
Financial considerations, in other words, may make another 
more important variable. 
And while I think financial considerations play a big role in foe high dropout picture, the secondary preparation ofthe potential student may be just as important if not more so. Little is known to me about this area; I do not know of any data assessing this. This is, of course, a reflection of the relative newness of the Indian student in the university, but because of the critical importance of trying to keep the In­dian student in school it should be looked at. In addition to the academic preparation, the sociological background of the student is probably very important as a predictor. What may be happening is that the student population is made up largely of students who come not from reservation cultures, but from non-reservation cultures. If that is the case, then what we may bl! engaged in is not education of people who can and will return to their communities on the reservation to fill the vitally needed positions in government, education, social welfare, health, and other needed services, but education of a class ofpeople who will be blended in with the dominant society. If this latter is the case, then we will not have Indian programs in my definition of the term, but they will be isolated programs, with little or no relevance to the reservation corilmunities I think we should be serving. And if this is so, the programs will by and large lose their validity in the eyes of the reservation communities. 
One complaint I hear frequently from Indian students from all across the state of California is that they drop out because the colleges have nothing to offer them. They seem to me to see, abstractedly, the value of education, but when they find that the campus has few if any classes oriented around Indians, they appear to lose their motivation to participate in higher education. The reality of the situation is that only four to six campuses in the state of California have more than a token curriculum designed to portray the his­tory, sociiology, art, religion, literature, and culture of the American Indian. On several others, there may be one to three or four classes concerning Indians listed in the catalogue; with many of the anthropology offerings taught in alternate years. I have no reason to doubt my student 
IND/AN VOICE 25 

friends who tell me that the reason they are not motivated to 
continue is that there is nothing in the curriculum to interest 
them. The relevance of curriculum in the retention ofthe In­
dian student seems to me to be also very important. 
Just as an aside, over the period of the past two years I 
have become amazed at another slight problem which faces 
those of us engaged in trying to design and implement an 
adequate curriculum for the Indian studies departments. The 
problem is the gross inadequacy of the books available to us 
as texts. Although there are literally tens of thousands of 
books on every aspect of Indian life, very few of them fit my 
criteria for use as texts. They are either written for the 
specialist, such as anthropologists and other Indian buffs, or 
for the popular audience. In reviewing perhaps two hundred 
books, I have run across perhaps two or three which I can 
fully consider to be adequate as texts, and two of these have 
been written by Dr. Ed Spicer. There is a great need for 
writing texts designed for the teaching of Native history, 
religion, art, literature, and so on. I should add that I don't 
consider myself qualified to judge the fields of religion, art, 
literature, and philosophy, and have not reviewed texts in 
these fields; but I have done quite an extensive review of the 
books available in history, education, political science, and 
culture, and in general find them either lacking or inap­
propriate for our purposes. 
The second area of basic research that I think is needed is 
evaluation of the effects of special programs on the student 
once he is in college. Many kinds of innovative programs 
have been started in the past few years, or at least programs 
which call themselves innovative have been started, but there 
is little if any followup by social scientists on the effects of 
these programs or the lack of it. Among these are special 
guidance and counseling programs, peer counseling 
experiments, development of innovative curricula, and 
experimental classes supposedly designed to fit the student 
for the role he will have when he graduates, such as classes in 
community development and economic development, and 
others. 
The effects ofthese on lowering the dropout rate should be evaluated, in the light of the results from the Head Start and similar programs. Ifthe result of the program is to pour on more of the same thing that has contributed to the dropout rate in the past, the results might be just the opposite ofwhat is desired. In other words, we need an evaluation of the im­pact of these prograni; in order to determine whether or not they ar~ orr,mlated on a sound basis ~~ikewise, curriculu~ developed ar01.:nd the Native Ameri~an experience and culture should be evaluated along the same lines. Ifwe are not succeedin~ with what we have, it should be restrncturt!d or discardec'.. And now is the time it sh:mld be d01.1e, before these programs and curriculu become highly institutionalized. Once they are institutionalized, it will become much more difficult to change their basic structure. 
The third area of research I think is needed is qualitatively different from the first two, and thaj_ is the area of theoretical research. Little is known about the dynamics ofwhat is com­monly called ethnicity. The socialization of social science researchers in this country has been such that they have done little work on the questions involved. These questions in­clude the development and resolution of conflict in the bicultural child, whether or not different socialization prac­tices result in different styles of communication, human relations, cognition, and motivation, and if these different practices do result in culturally-oriented styles of learning, what can be done to resolve the frustration, indecision, and apathy of the child confronted in the school with a new style of learning and motivation. 1 
The school is in this framework one of the institutions of the dominant society which confront the child with new modes of social action, but because of its nature the conflict caused by the school is more intense than contact with some of the other institutions of the dominant society such as courts, mass media, religious organizations, and social work organizations. 
Wr-do not know, however, if conflicts in the educational situation are causep by contrasting socio-cultural systems, or by the environment in which the child operates. Are value systems themselves inherently in conflict, or can the bicultural person operate equallywell in two or more socio­cultural frameworks? Is the conflict predominantly due to the nature of the environment rather than to basic irresolvable differences in value systems? What we do know is that the motivation to achieve in the present framework is for most Native students lacking, as evidenced by the low retention rate we now have. 
Is it possible that the successful bicultural individual can learn human relations within two different environments, can accept and integrate two human relations styles, and call on the appropriate one according to the situation? If this 150% man is possible, and from the evidence it now seems likely that this is indeed the process, then it would make logical good sense to develop the school around the concept of a plurality of cultures, rather than continuing in the present framework of a monocultural approach. 
This new approach would seem to be promising, but it re­quires considerably more work before the dynamics of biculturalism are understood. It seem futile, however, to continue under the assumption that what the child learns early in life, if it is not the culture and social practices of the dominant, is somehow wrong or deficient. This is a very convenient outlet for the professional educator, because it can pinpoint failure not on the institution, but on the child and the family upbringing (or what is considered the lack of upbringing). But in reality, is the deficit model adequate to explain the lack of achievement of culturally different children? Charles Valentine2 makes a good case for a different model altogether, a bicultural one, and from his research he came to the conclusion that the deficit model is sadly lacking in explanatory power. 
Unfortunately, most of the special services programs of the past few years, some of ,which are on the college cam­puses, take as their basic assumption the deficit model of minority child development. These programs are basically the ones I referred to earlier in saying they need to be evaluated as to their impact on the Indian college student. Instead of being adequate, it may be that these programs fall far short of their goal of providing "remedial" serviGes to the minority student. Rather than blaming the child and his family background continually, we might be better instructed to examine the structure of the institutions and work toward making them responsive to the culturally different communities in the nation. 

-DEAN CHAVERS 

1I am indebted to Prof. Alfredo Castaneda for the framework ofthis discussion. 2Charles A. Valentine, "Deficit, Difference, and Bicultural Models of Afro-Ameri­can Behavior," Harvard Education Review, v. 41, no. 2, May 1970, pp. 137-157 
Vernon Bellecourt Speaks 
(from page 19) 
was drunk, but later st~ted that he overheard someb d 
say that he had seen this woman that night in the com~ Yelse Harold With Horn, he was arrested, charged wit:f. of degree murder, and held without bond. rSt This is part of the double standard of justice whi h 
ha_ve unc~vered all acr~ss this land whi_ch contributes ~o t~~ gnevances of the Indian people which actions such Wounded Knee arc aimed at redressing. This is the s as 
. . h. ame

double standard of Justice w ich prevailed at Gord Nebraska, where Raymond Yellow Thunder was forced i 0 ~• the American Legion Hall and made to dance naked, :n~ 

later was beaten to death. Itwas the same double standard of justice which prevailed in Ajo, Arizona, where Phillip ~ala ya ~as mur~er~d. It i~ the ~ame double standard of jus­tice which prevails m Cahforma where Richard Oakes was also assassinated and his killer was charged with man­slaughter. 
The war continues against our people all across this land. The American Indian Movement has avowed to deal with it and when we were asked to go to Wounded Knee, we went i~ order to deal with it there. We recognize that the so-called "longest undeclared war in history" which has supposedly come to a close in Southeast Asia is not the "longest undeclared war in history". That war is the war that has been taking place against our people, our lands, our minerals, our resources, and our sacred Mother Earth for 482 years, and we are still in that war today in Wounded Knee. People laughed when we said we wanted them to send Kissinger to Wounded Knee to sign another peace treaty with our people, because we see that we have to have a peace treaty to end this eternal war against us. 
In 1968 we recognized that a movement had to start. It had to be an organization that was run by Indian People, and would always remain a strong advocate for Indian People_. It is because of that commitment that the American Indian Movement has become involved in all of these controversial issues, and I suspect that in the weeks and months to come, we will be involved in many more. 
After we are indicted, (I understand that I, too, have been indicted along with my brothers at Wounded Knee)! once we are out on bail, we will continue our work. They might even try to kill us, and they may try to put us away; but whatev:r they do to us, the leaders and warriors ofWounded Knee, t e Movement will continue. The American Indian Moveme~t is going to bring freedom to the sovereign people in this Ian ' and that is our commitment. 


-VERNON BELLECOURT 
(To be continued next monlh) 

(from p age 9) Omani Lakota 
chiefs (large because of the guests they were constantly required to entertain). There too would be the tipis of the warrior socieities, as well as a three­sided willow shade facing north with a fire in front where the council would meet. (These meetings often lasted three or four days. Important men would sit to the rear. Women would come and cook food which was passed sunwise to all assembled.) 
All of the ti pis in the camp faced east, except for those of the Heyoka (Holy men who had dreamed of the thunder beings) which faced the opposite direction. This was true whether the band was large or small. The only exception was when the entire tribe gathered for the Sun Dance in the summer. Then all the tipis faced the Sun Lodge in the center of the camp to gain power from that. (see drawings A & B) 
In such camp circles the tipis of the chiefs represented the center of the world, the Paha Sapa. The ti pis of holy men at the north, south and west represented the four directions, and the Earth marked out by the camp circle represented the four directions, and the Earth marked out by the camp circle 
represented Maka, Ina, the Earth as Mother. The huge fire in the center represented Maka, Unci, the Earth as Grandmother. 
When all the Titowan Division camped together, they made a circle of seven smaller circles (see drawing "C"). The Hunkpapas were on the left side of the entrance and the Sihasapas, their brother tribe, were on the right. The name "Hunkpapa" means the guardians of the door to the camp circle. After the Hunkpapas (from left to right) were the Minicoujous, No Hows, Two Kettles, Ogalalas, Sicangu and Sihasapas (see drawing "C"). In such a large camp all the tipis of the various cheifs would be in the center ofthe chiefs would be in the center of the individual circles as well as the large lodges of the warrior societies. In the center of the huge circle would be the lodges of the great chiefs of each tribe and a large shade for the general council of great men and chiefs. 
But whatever the size of the camp, it reflected the form that Wakantanka gave us, and the meanings he left for us in the earth. We lived in oneness with him, and whe_n the game was plentiful on the prairie, or when it was scarce, we lived full and alive in our union with 
him. -TAHCA SKA 
(Lakota) Omani Lakota will continue next issue 



101n our••• 



$25.00 
CLUB 
. 
If you'd like to help us meet our production costs join our $25.oo:club. Membership en­titles you to personal satisfaction in knowing you've helped-that is the Indian way. 

. 
Our history is colorful and vibrant and we want to share our heritage with the rest of the world. We believe this work is important; Indians need to be heard today as never before. 

. 
The directors, management and staff of In­dian Voice are all Indians. We're a non-profit organization dedicated to presenting the true Indian viewpoint in America. 

. 
Support us if you can. Ask your friends to become members. Our voice will be a little louder. 


28 IND/AN VOICE 
AIPA News 
(from page 20) 
airplanes, ride in Mustangs, and many 
fo ... in suburban houses. This is 1973. We have to face these facts. The body is a gift of the Great Spirit." 
She posed for playboy, she says, in order to have the money to go to Europe to attend a theater festival. 
"Many traditional people feel that other people who pose in the nude in 'that kind of magazine' are awful. The Playboy pictures were art photography, not pornography. I'm not Linda Lovelace. It was strictly a business agreement. I needed the money to get to Europe and back. I went with other In­dians to the International Theater Fes­tival in Nancy, France. Playboy treats all their people fantastically." 
Ms. Littlefeather was born in Salinas, Calif., south of San Francisco, where her ·parents had just moved from the White Mountain Apache Reservation in Arizona. Due to a mixup in birth records at the Salinas hospital, she explained, her parents had to seek legal recourse to get them straightened out. Rumors that she was not an Indian began circulating in a national scandal rag, the National Enquirer, after the Academy Awards ceremony in Hollywood this past March when she was asked by Actor Marlon Brando to decline the Oscar in his place. 
She appeared that night in a full buckskin dress and hair ties and outraged many of the top film stars and industry executives with her one-minute speech. And she's had a lot of problems resulting from her stand-in for Brando. 
"Jane Fonda thinks she's been boycotted for her political work, but she's got nothing on me. Brando's a big name. They can't get at him, but they can get at me. They can take it out on me and use me as a whipping post. But why should an actress who cares about her people be defamed?" 
Sacheen says her Oscar appearance "wasn't my decision. Brando chose me 'Indian time' -a day and a half before the ceremony. The reason he did was that I am a member ofthe Screen Actors Guild, working with its Minority Image Committee. I'm an official in the San Francisco chapter. 
"I'm not a militant or a radical. I didn't do it for ego, publicity or more movie roles. I did it from my heart because Hollywood has had a hand in dealing with Indians unfairly. They've created the savage image. They've made over 3,000 films with Indians in them and they've profited economically.:' 

Since last March, says Sacheen, "a lot 
of people have tried to exploit me for 
money. Everybody who gets in the 
limelight goes through that. From Oscar 
night on, people have been asking me 
for favors." 

A major experience for her was the 
occupation of Alcatraz Island by In­
dians in November of 1969. When the 
island was seized, she was a student at 
California State University. She visited 
the island on weekends and holidays. 
"I remained fairly quiet and observed 
many Indians there. Indian awareness 
hit on Alcatraz, especially for the urban 
Indian who had been a victim of 
circumstance." 

She is a mi~ed-blood raised by her 
white grandparents.-As a child she con­
tracted tuberculosis, and her father was 
a deaf mute. Communicating with her 
father, she believes, turned her into an 
actress. 

"I've been around a lot of deaf mutes. 
I began acting out messages for and to 
him. All my family speaks sign language 
very well except me. I acted out the mes­
sages." 

In San Francisco Sacheen teaches 
modeling free to Indian teenage girls "to 
help them be proud as Indians." She 
works in both film and theater, has 
worked as a radio broadcaster over 
KFRC, and is committed to getting rid 
of the false stereotypes of Indians in 
movies and TV. She is a member of the 
Native American Affirmative Image 
Committee here, and continues her 
work with the Screen Actors Guild on 
the same problems. 

One thing for sure. She's added a new dimension to the "Indian Image " in the most striking way possible -the bare facts. 
Washington, D.C. -(AIPA) -The political process by which a potential nominee for the position of Commissioner of Indian Affairs must seek broad and solid backing is long and involved, and the name of the game is "consultation." 
Morris Thompson, the 34-year-old Athabascan and Juneau Area Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), was nominated to the President by the Interior Secretary, Rogers C.B. Morton, on Sept. N; and by Sept. 26 he has arrived here in the nation's capital while great numbers of Indian leaders were in town to seek their counsel and support. 
Thompson's arrival coincided .
ththose of the Indian members ofwih 

. 1 C . te
N at1ona ouncll on Ind· Opportunity (NCIO) and top offic •an
h N . . ersof
1

tAe . ~tiona(NTTnbal Chairmen's 
ssoc1at10n CA). Some m · urban Indian moderate leaders aJor 
. b . Were
1

a so m town on usmess._ And in town also were officers of Indians includ· the National Congress of Amer· Ing
. re~

Indians (NCAI) and Americans Indian Opportunity (AIO). or White House sources indicat d 
Thompson's first call was on Leonaed Ga~me_nt, the P~esid~nt's top lawyer f:r rev1ewmg presidential appointments Sources·say that meeting was extensive· 
Then Thompson began a long proces~ of consulting top Indian leaders. He met them in hotel rooms and in offices ofthe federal agencies. 
In Thompson's wake came a number of Alaska Native leaders to boost his candidacy. Fanning out among other Indians into key senatorial and congressional offices on Capitol Hill they began a sophisticated lobbying effort for Thompson utilizing their wealth of experience acquired in relation to the historic settlement of oil and land questions in 1971 and continuing to the autumn of 1973. 
Major issues and questions concerning Thompson or put to Thompson among Indian leaders, according to AIPA sources who asked not to be named, were these: 
-Is he a strong enough individual to withstand the sometimes intolerable pressures which will come down on his head from Interior and the White House? 
-As an Area Director would Thompson seek to give enhanced power to his peers, the other Area Directors? 
-How did he stand on plans to realign the BIA? 
-As an Alaska Native does he fully understand the nature and importance of the trust status of Indian lands to "Lower 48" Indians? 
-Does he face any potential confli~t of interest as a potential stock owne~ ID the new Athabascan regional Native corporation, which will be affected ~y any decisions he may have to make_ ID the future concerning Alaska Na!ive land and oil from which he might
' 
benefit personally? 
-Would he be able to heal the political schism among the n~arly_ I~ ,000 employees in the BIA nationwide. 
-With what kind ofpersonnel would he surround himself? 
(see page JI) !frompage 24) 

some tribes are satisfied with their relationship with area offices. However, because some area officers are arrogant 1n0ugh to defy policies made in Washington and are difficult 10 deal with, other tribes simply avoid them and go directly 10 Washington. This of course is what was done before 1948, when the areao1offices were created. Some tribal chairmen nave been trying for years to get rid ofthe area offices and so 1•]early area directors are fighting for their very existence. 
In 1970 BIA Commissioner Bruce proposed a reorganization for the BIA which would have been responsive to the desires of many tribes. His plan called for the transferral of some area directors, stripping area offices 0f!ine authority to Washington and transforming them into technical backup service centers. Agency superintendent offices would have been filled by the newly-created field administrators with decision-making authority at the level closest to the tribes. But because of the political muscle ,arnered by the area directors and also objections of some iribes who, as usual, weren't consulted on the plan, Bruce's reorganization never got off the ground. 
Apparently area directors have more clout with the current BIA administration under Marvin Franklin, Assistant to the Secretary for Indian Affairs, than with the revious administration. Franklin and his aids, called the 'six-pack" in Washington, have been working on a new plan [or reorganizing the BIA central office by reducing its 1mployees from 1,050 to 715. (334 would remain in Washington and 381 would be sent to the agency and area offices.) But this plan may not amount to anything either. At the June 25th Senate Subcommittee on Indian Affairs oversight hearing on the proposed reorganization, Senator Abourezk requested that the implementation of the plan be ~eferred until the hearings were completed and sufficient Indian input was received on the plan. Then on July 10th, Abourezk canceled the second part of the hearings after 
ramatically announcing that according to the American Law Division of the Library of Congress, Mr. Franklin was 1erving illegally in his office and could not legally take any actions on behalf of the BIA. This is because Congress has not been informed of the nomination of any person, including Mr. Franklin, to the post of BIA Commissioner. It nas been said by BIA employees that the White House has Ileen holding up Franklin's nomination for some reason. Abourezk therefore adjourned the hearings "until such time as the Administration chooses to act within the law." 
Despite tribal discontent with area offices, under the proposed reorganization -recently termed "minor" by Franklin -area offices would have upgraded. Also through !he creation of a Committee on Field and Internal Operations, composed of the area directors, the Commissioner, and Deputy Commissioner, policy-making PDwers would have been so diffused that tribes would never 
ave been able to hold any one individual responsible for PDlicy. .According to one version of the reorganization, area 
directors themselves would have had policy-making power. This part of the plan, however, was rejected by the Secretary 0~ Interior, and the plan reverted back to having the area d~rectors merely suggest policy, as they do now. The idea to give area directors policy-making power was initiated by Rranklin's own clandestine group of advisorsfrom area and agency offices called the "Artichoker Committee" who met ~cretiy and reworked the original proposal of Richard 0dman, Assistant Secretary of Management and Budget of 
Interior, and his task force of Washington Interior employees. 
Part of the philosophy behind the propo~ed reorganization was, as one BIA employee critical ofthe plan put it, "the concept of keeping the Indians out of town." (Washington) This of course would have meant that tribes would be forced to deal with area offices more than ever, whose judgments are often clouded by the influence of local politics and special interest groups interested in suppressing tribes for selfish reasons. Because of this, tribes have always preferred to deal with Washington officials rather than state or other local officials. 
Another part of the reorganization plan would have been to get rid of the Indian Technical Assistance Group, a Denver organization which contracts with tribes and is responsible for Indian Action Teams. This organization was formed in 1971 during Bruce's administration by restructuring a plant management center into a technical assistance office. According to the reorganization plan, funding for this organization would be cut in half. ITAG, composed of 2 non-Indians and 38 Indians, threatens the power of area directors who resent tribes being able to go elsewhere to get contracts easily and quickly. For instance, when the Northern Cheyennes desired to negotiate for an Indian Action Team with ITAG rather than with the area office, area officials created every obstacle possible; it was only through pressure from the White House, Congress, the Office of Management and _Budget, and Interior officials that the tribe finally received their contract from ITAG. 
Area officials will continue to jealously guard their power to approve tribal contracts; therefore, although S.1017 may expand contracting authority if enacted, some tribes may find themselves as left out of tribal development as ever unless they cow-tow to area demands. Government paternalism will continue and tribal efforts toward development and management oftheir own programs will be suppressed in the interests of maintaining the federal bureaucracy rather than strengthening the tribes. And as long as the BIA remains in the Department of Interior, lndian interests will be secondary and often in conflict with other Interior concerns such as development of natural resources, a special interest of wealthy corporations who have a large voice in Interior and Congress as well 
PAT PORTER 

Next Edition 
Book Review-American Indian
¦ Policy in the Formative Years 
Allegory-A Short Story 
¦ 
American Educational Programs¦ on Native Americans 
The Dilemma of Indian

¦ Leadership 
plus more... 

30 IND/AN VOICE 
What Price Glory 
(from page 13) 
made their cruelties look mild in com­
parison. 
It was from the British and the early Americans that Indians learned the art of scalping. There is no evidence that the New England Indians burned their prisoners at the stake until they learned this art after seeing their fell ow tribesmen put to death in this manner by White Men. If we examine history we find that most Indian atrocities and tortures were copied from the White Man. 
No tortures ever devised by Indians 

could equal those used by the 
Spaniards, who were cruel in their 
treatment of the Indians. 
There are countless records of white 

prisoners being treated with honor and 
consideration by their Indian captors. 
And any stories to the contrary are, for 
the most part, quasi-fiction. True, In­
dians did their share ofscalping but only 
when provoked. And he was usually 
provoked. 
Indians today live in desert ghetto 

conditions. Presidential candidates may 
promise a chicken in every pot -a car 
in every garage but no president can live 
down the shame brought on by the en­
slavement of the first real Americans. 
Because the government keeps In­

dians in bondage on reservations is no 
reason to suspect the Indian has passed 

away. He is with us today as in the days 
when William Penn sat as chief guest in 
councils by the open fire. Part of the 
tradition of a council by the open fire 

was passing the peace pipe, which may 
be equated to today's youth feeling 
togetherness passing a stick of mari­

juana. 
In art and song our native North 
American will survive. He clings to the 
faith of his fathers through life and 
death. Of his faith and heritage we can­
not rob him. Amid chaotic conditions 
he lives serenity. He ignores the 
"civilization" which despises him. He 
trusts only his savage instinct. 
He dares to die. At best, life is but a 
struggling bor.e, a dream of harmony. 
Knowing this, the Indian accepts his 
fate. He reads a message in the burning 
star, sees a prophetic vision in the 
mirrored lake; hears the Voice Divine in 
a falling leaf, and when the coyote is sil­
houetted against the cresent moon on a 
summer's eve, the Indian is seen cares­
sing the bloody earth where his father 
fought before him, hoping the land 
might revert back to his kindred. The 
happy voices of youth may be heard upon the night wind chanting their savage prayer. These "savage" reflec­tions are part of the reason that many still look upon the Indian as an un­civilized man -as yet untamed, which 

spiritually is not far from the truth. Mud and stick houses are home to him more than a palatial mansion on Fifth Avenue. All he wants from life is to be left alone, to wander unmolested and to hunt the wild animals which sustain him in his every need: meat, clothing, fuel. The good earth and herbs of nutritional value (unheard of in processed foods) are his religion. Yet, many Indians are sick. Not from a lack of food, I would say, but lack of spirit. Notice the way he walks. His lips are silent upon ques­tioning. He harbors tfie past and that is not good. 
Every day, in nearly every newspaper 
throughout the land, headlines scream 
of the inequities of the treatment of the 
Black man but hardly a word about the 
Indian. The Indian is saddened to read 
of brutality by America's police force. 
They are ashamed, as are whites, to hear 
of cops beating young demonstrators. 
The Indians are a brave and proud 
race. They will, unlike sadistic cops, 
fight anyone on fair grounds as they did 
many years ago. But when cannons were 
brought in to be used against the bow 
and arrow, what chance did they have? 
Ifas much news space were given to the 
Indians as was received by the Watts, 
Detroit and Kent University 
demonstrations, the story of the Indian 
might be complete. 

We cannot overlook the fact that 
almost without exception the Indians 
were brave and valiant foes as well as 
allies. Regardless of the right and 
wrong, we must credit the outstanding 
bravery, nobility and magnanimity of 
many Indian chiefs and warriors. Both 
sides lost many lives. But as was said 
before, disease, immorality, liquor and 
the destroying effects of civilization 
killed far more Indians than swords or 
bullets. When will it all end? And why 
should it have started in the first place? 
It is a wonder that the Indian has 
survived. Yet when World War II broke 
out, . hundreds of Indians answered the 
call. From every tribe they came ­
Blackfeet, Delawares, Seminoles, 
Apache, Iroquois, Dakota, Cherokee, 
Navajo and Mohaves -age-old foes of 
white tyranny. Why did they walk side 
by side with their white brothers? The 
Indian considers himself the first "real" 
American and any threat to America is a 
threat to his heritage. 
Today, some Indians roam the plains 
of this land much as they did a century 
ago, only now in poverty Ther . 

· e 1s no 
reason to scalp, only to rememb h 

h. , . er t e 
w 1te mans cruelties, greed and lust The buffalo wander no more to serv · 
. eas
food for the hungry Indian. The coyot the bear, even the jackrabbit flee fr e, 
h. , . om 
the w 1~e ~an s nmsy world of moon­shot scientists, power-lust politician jeeps and tractors. s, 

Meet the Indian on his own ground ~nd he will seem happy to be there. He 1s. But aw~y from ~ome he is sullen, on the defensive, afraid. He is happy to be on the land of his fathers, free of smog and modern civilization that crumbles the heart and tortures the soul with its 
crazy pace. 

The Indian did not want war with the 
White Man. It was thrust upon him 
much the same as America's entry into 
World War II -a fight to protect his 
homeland against invasion. But the 
tortured have a way of living while the 
torturer goes on to meet his maker 
because the oppressed are stronger in 
spirit. But now the fighting is over. The 
sad memory of it remains, however. 
War brings nothing but chaos. Rich 
men are richer, the poor are poorer. Too 
many of the fighters are dead. 

The Indian is a prisoner, He womd 
like to be rid of his shackles but is afraid 
of the world outside the reservation. He 
does not trust the white man. It is 
written in his eyes. 

The saddest and most insidious fact 
about poverty among Indians, as well as 
other minority races, is that those who 
are in a position to do something about 
it ignore it like the plague. The citizen 
Indian takes what is fed him -or rather 
what is sold to him. 

But, alas, promises have no meaning 
to an Indian. So many have been 
broken. For hundreds of years the 
White Man broke nearly every treaty he 
signed with the Indian. As the west was 
conquered, the Indian was gradually 
moved farther and farther from his 
birthplace. White Man's promises of 
"this and no more" were just like Hitler's 
"scraps of paper." Don't we owe similar 
"reparations" to the Indian? Why have 
we poured billions into Germany and 
Japan yet all but ignored the Indian 
nations? 

Like medicine men oftribal times and 
priests of the Middle Ages, politicia~s 
actually believe they have done all that is 
humanly possible for Indian tribes ­
while the tribes have all but starved. 

The government would like to w~sh 
its hands of the whole thing -feeding 
Indian poor. And herein lies red tape 
that has entangled many an empas­
sioned plea to "d not years from no:something'' now ­
Malnutrition am . multitude of diseas~ng !ndia_ns, plus a as the Indian all ' will exist as long
· 0ws thes • . 
exist and as long e cond1t1ons to 
· · as Gover
tmues to ignore th _n_ment con-How dare ese conditions. 
. us to all
Americans to live . ow the first wealth! m squallor amid our Sitting Bull from th 
haJ?piness all your lilegrave wishes You "'.h1tes as Well as for "h. . He speaks for dia ns. He says fio is people," the In­
'd 1 r you to b t 
J ea s; for you to be e r~e to your nature, which rul ever mmdful of wishes you well ~s over_all things. He 
A-Hau (Peace b ev~n m death. 
e With you). 


-Lou MARDER 

to all quick th.
mgs 
who says the great bear lives the stone is dead 
the flower lives the pond is dead has scarcely tasted 

life himself he walks about his fingers clenched 
his ears and eyes his nose and tongue 
shut tightly 
and only knows his stranger dreams oyes! 
the stone the pond the wind the sun the earth the stars 
all live all share the life the gods dispose 
Norman Russell 

(from page 28) 
These and other . 
components in the e qu~st1ons Were [hompson would h0Id7tion of power ormally nominated b I and When he is 
the Senate. y the President to Thompson's
· name 
_ons1deration aft . came under list of three name:rs It w~s offered on a recent w k ubm1tted by NCAJ
NT ee s there w . 
~A Would mov ere reports that i:imation beforeha:d to block the mg Senate confirma/r to OP.f?ose it 
y the last Week of S IOn heanngs. on to Thom ep~e~ber oppo­eared to dwin pso~ ~1_thm NTCA vajo Tribal dle s1g~1ficantly. Only 
acDonald was u ~ha1rman Peter he final Wor~ bl1cly opposing him. 
wever, would onl;; any ?PPosition, President sub f?Pear ifand when to the Sen m1_ts Thompson's 
y hearings~~' ~h1ch ha_s pr?mised e nommat10n. 


by RICHARD LA COURSE 
BACK 





ISSUES 
• 

... 1n case 
you 

missed us 
IND/AN VOICE 
Now you can bring your IND/AN VOICE collection up to date or order additional back copies for your friends by completing this handy order blank. All copies 75¢ each available only while supplies last. 
~BACK ISSUES ORDER BLANK~ 
'71 Month  No. of  x75ct  '71 Month  No. of  
of Issue  Copies  Price  of Issue  Copies  
March"  July/Aug.  



April  Sept./Oct. _  
May  Nov.  
June  Dec./Jan.  

• February 1971 was the first edition Total Total 
l~ues ___ Price __~ 

Plea!it! mail to: 

IND/AN VOICE P.O. Box 2033, I am enclosing a check D Santa Clara, California 95050. money order D 
My name is________________________
-!m 

(please print)
Address_ _ ____________________~ 
City._ __ _______ 



Plight of Urban Indians 

(from page 10) BIA assistance, American Indians are still rushing into the urban centers, finding a culture into which it is difficult, if not impossible, to assimilate. The language barrier, in some instances, further perpetuates the poverty cycle. Moreover, good jobs are scarce, and many new urban Indians are unskilled or untrained for the available jobs. Indian children, emerging from a different culture and life style, often drop out ofschool and into the unskilled labor market. This further cements their poverty. 
The social service needs of American Indians are clear. The problems are not necessarily Indian problems. They are poverty problems which happen to affect Indians with tragic severity. Government -at any level -will not be able to fulfill the real needs of the urban Indian unless it moves beyond its traditional approach to helping the poor. In coming to grips with the problems of urban Indians, the people must be given an opportunity to participate in the planning and delivery ofsocial services, for without a mutual exchange, innovative programs designed exclusively by non­Indians will not satisfy the unique needs of Indian people. Moreover, Indian agencies should be provided adequate federal funding so that they can administer their own welfare programs. 
The question that remains, however, is this: Can urban In­dians survive while social service departments grapple with their past failures? 
-OTTO TRABUE 
(Choctaw-Pawnee 


Truth about Syphilis 
(From Page JI} 
them from the New World. But in his new book, Microbes and Morals, bacteriologist Theodor Rosebury argues that many cases of leprosy described in the Bible were, in fact, syphilis. 
· Writing in the Journal of the American Medical As­sociation, Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, a paleopathologist, made this point: 
The skeletal remains of unquestionably precolumbian date are, barring few exceptions, remarkably free from disease. Whole important scourges were wholly unknown . .. There was no plague, cholera, typhus, smallpox or measles. Notwithstanding some claims to the contrary, there is as yet not a single instance of thoroughly authenticated precolum­bian syphilis. 
In spite of the fact that the evidence overwhelmingly dis­proves any theory claiming that syphilis originated in the New World, the myth with most of its embellishments persists. I first heard the story when I was in the Marine Corps. Our Drill Instructor told his recruits all about the In­dians and the sheep and how Columbus and the Spaniards caught the disease from the Indians and took it back to Europe. My only reaction was that I thought it served them right. There are those that claim the myth is a form of institutionalized racism. Perhaps it is. In 1972, the San Jose Mercury made the following statement in a front page article on the rampant VD epidemic in California: 
There is evidence that Columbus' crew brought the In­dians of newly discovered America tuberculosis, and in re­turn received from them the dread venereal disease, syphilis. 

What follows is attributed to Eddie Benton of th American Indian Movement: e "Oh, dear Lord, we thank you from the depth of our hearts and the wellspring of our souls. We beseech Thee to accept our humble words of gratitude for all that you have done for Indian people. "De~r L?rd, we thank you for poverty, starvat10n, mfant deaths, a 44-year life span diseases like smallpox, diphtheria, tuberculosi~ and V.D. We thank you for alcoholism and suicide. "We thank you for slum landlords and outhouses. Dear Lord, we thank you for unem­ployment, relief rolls and food stamps. We thank you for missionaries, their hollow words and used clothing; old basketballs, mismatched shoes and evening gowns. "We thank you for B.I.A. and all land grabbers. We thank you also for crooked politicians, hard­. hearted university officials and money-hungry traders. We thank you for the fourth-rate education perpetuated by the B.I.A. and the Churches. We thank you for pollution that fills our streams and kills our fish and game. "We thank you for 389 broken treaties. We thank you for Sand Creek, Wounded Knee and the Trail of Tears, as well as all scalp hunters. We thank you for extermination, termination and as­similation of a proud, noble race. And bless all those anthropologists who dig up our dead. We thank you for loyal, sympathetic, understanding police, riot helmets, mace, billy clubs and dogs. "And, Lord, bless all the Apples, sellouts, and Uncle Tomahawks, for they walk with race haters, bigots, and desecrators. "Bless all that are blind to Peace, Brotherhood · and Indian unity. "And we especially want to thank the chu~c~es for their spirited, well-organized fund. ~a1smg drives using Indian people and their cond1t10ns as incentives for appeals. "Lord, we thank you for suffering and heartaches that are caused by hate and &reed. Bies! America-Home of Freedom and Justice for all. 
•·••·•·••·•·n·•·..·•·..·•·••·•·••~••·•·••·•·••·•·••·•·•·•·•·••a;••·•·••·•·••·•·••·•·•~••a;,.:S.--..""'
e••:F.••~••i!••~••:F..,:F..,,:.«.,:F..,:F...~••~••:s:.,:E.,:F...:F...;:••~.,:r~ 
The author of that article failed to do his homework; a few hours of rese.arch in any good library would have show~ him that the American Indian did not create syphilis nor did h.e get it from sheep or the practice of cannibalism. He _got _it from the European immigrant who even today persists 10 spreading the myth as well as the disease. 

-ROBERT ANDREW MEIGS 
(Choctaw-Cherokee) 

A Bag of Bones 7. Pomo Indians of California 12. Warriors of the Rainbow By Marcelle Masson. Fas­and Thier Neighbors By William Willoya (Eski­cinating stories and legends By Vinson Brown;"illus1ra1ed mo) and Vinson Brown. 
of the Wintu Indians of by Douglas Andrews. 64 Strange and prophetic vi­northern California, as told pages, plus a full color map sions of the Indian Peoples. absorbingly by an "old one", that shows the old trails and Five magnificent full-color Grant Towendolly. villages and wth paintings reproductions of paintings 
C/01h 5.50; paper 2.50 of Indian life; 70 illustra­done by Indian artists. 20 
2. Buffalo Heart tions in book, including 12 line drawings and I04 pages. 
By Sun Bear. Exciting stor­photographs. All these finely Cloth 5.50; paper 2.50 ies of Indian culture, reli­illuminate a simply and in­
Good Medicine Series 

gion, history and heroes terestingly-told text. 
13A Life in Harmony with Na­
from the standpoint of an 

C/01h 5.50; paper 2.50 ture 32 pages. Paper 1.50 
Indian who knows much 8. Pomo Basketmaking 13B Companion Volume
about the old ways. By Elsie A llen. The life and 32 pages. Paper 1.50
C/01h 6.00; paper 3.00 ari of this devoted Pomo 
3. Great Upon the Mountain grandmother. Mrs. Allen 13C In Glacier Ntl. Park -Crazy Horse of America gives complete step-by-step 32 pages. Paper 1.50 By Vinson Brown, illus-directions for recreating 13D Traditional Dress 
50 pages. Paper 2.50

1ra1ed by Adelbert Zephier beautiful and useful baskets, (Yank1on Sioux). A study from gathering and prepar­13 E Tipi Life 
in depth of the Indian un­ing roots and feathers to 32 pages. Paper 1.50 derstanding of life, earth actual weaving and finishing 13 F Good Medicine Thoughts and spirit as seen through of the baskets. Fully illus­32 pages. Paper 1.50 
the life and feelings of a trated. 
13G Legends 
famous Indian holy man 

C/01h 5.00; paper 2.00 64 pages. Paper 2.50 and warrior. With two 
9. Songs of the Yokuts and 
13H Spirit at Hidden Valley color plates and many Paiutes 

120 pages. Paper 3.00 drawings. By Alfred Pietroforte. Indi­
I 4. Strange Journey

C/01h 4.95; paper 1.95 an folk singing, adapted for By Louis Lone Dog (Mo­hawk-Delaware). We were 
4. Indian Talk -Hand Signals grade school use by an in­
of the North American structor at the College of 
intrigued and delighted by

Indians the Sequoias. Of interest to the haunting loveliness andBy Iron Eyes Cody. Illus­anyone interested in Cali­striking spirituality of thotrated with photographs by fo rnia and Nevada Indians. 
face of this Indian woman,

the author and his Seneca Many pages of actual songs Indian wife; 80 pages; over are accurately transcribed 
but even more by the extra­ordinary adventures of the spirit of which she writes. 

150 illustrations of the sign in, the book. IO full-page 
language. An easily-under­photographs and 6 drawings. stood guide to a fascinating 
Illustrated with 2 color

C/01h 4.50; paper 1.50 
plates and several drawingslanguage used by the Plains 

10. Tales of the Sea Foam Tribes for centuries. For all 
by Tso Yazzie.

By Lise/le G. Brown. True ages. 
Paper 1.50

adventures of an 11-year­C/01h 4.95; paper 1.95 old white girl with an Indian Charles Eastman Books 
5. Lord of the Dawn, Quetzal­group of the northwestern ISA Indian Boyhood coatl Paper 3.50
California coast. A wise and By Tony Shearer. The story wonderful old Indian wo­15B Old Indian Days of ancient Mexico and her man lends strong interest Paper 3.50 great prophet-King, Quetzal­to the story. Aids relations 
ISC The Soul of the Indian

coatl, the Plumed Serpent, and understanding between 
Paper 3.50

in poetic prose. 7 color white and Indian children. plates and numerous draw­
5 photos, 12 drawings. 16. Gospel of the Redman ings. 
Cloth 4.75; paper 1.75 By Ernest Thompson Seton.
C/01h 6.95; paper 3.95 

11. Tapestries in Sand-The Depth and beauty of reli­
6. Native Americans of Cali­Spirit of Indian Sandpaint­gion. An account of the fornia and Nevada ing Indian way of life. I08 pa­By Dr. Jack D. Forbes. By David Villasenor, a part ges. 
Study of Indian culture in Otomi Indian, who has Paper 1.95 this area from prehistoric learned sandpainting from 17. Secret of NCI Face, an lreok­times to the present plus a the Navajo medicine men. wa Epic fascinating history of Indian­He writes with deep beauty By Chief Everelt Parker & white relations. 210 pages, and feeling of this ancient Oledoska. An authentic 18 photographic plates, 6 art and its inner meanings. Seneca tale never recorded 
maps, and a history chart. Many fascinating stories of before. Lavish color illus­A graphic and realistic ac­Indian religion and culture trations & sketches by Indi­count, frankly pointing out are told. 112 pages, 16 pages an artists. Glossary of Sene­crimes against the Indians. of fine color plates. ca words. 174 pages. 
C/01h 6.95; paper 3.95 Cloth 6.25; paper 3.25 Cloth 6.95; paper 3.95 



~·~!-••························································ 
: • ORDER BY NU MBER ONLY. 0 I am enclosing full remittance, 
• 
I (P250C550) 2 (P300C600) 3 (P250C550) 4 (Pl95C495) 5 (P395C695) send my book(s) prepaid. : b (P395C695) 7 (P250C550) 8 (P200C500) 9 (Pl50C450) IO (PI75C475) 0 ,Bill me. You may add 50¢ hand­

• 
11 (P325C625) 12 (P250C550) 13A (Pl50) 13B (Pl_50) 13C (PI50) ting for I to 3 books+ IO¢ each 130 (P250) 13E (Pl50) 13F (Pl50) 13G (P250) 13H(P300) 14 (Pl50) for four or more books. ISA (P350) 15B (P350) 15C (P350) 16 (Pl95) 17 (P395C695) Mail to: Indian Books, Native 


American Publishing Company, I would like __ additional copies of No. ~-----P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, Cali­fornia, 95051 . 
NAME ___________________________ _ 
ADDRESS 

CITY _____________STATE ___ZIP CODE _____ 
Postage prepaid only when cash, check or money order accompanies order. 


So it's not sur~ri_ licat~~~,.,devoted to .~ ntemporary In­
accuse us of , being~,.,~ ~~· dians on\the national level. "ignorant savages" ~But somehow we couldn't quite fools." lower ourselves to name calling. 
We understand. That would be too easy. 
After all, Indian h,as,1,f ~ ays :J>een Instead, we decided to try some­a pretty strange name; Al«J Just p ear-, thing harder. Educate white people ing it out of the blue, you'~ P.robabl~ to the Indfan view of America. Let never figure out the truth. them find out what today's Indian 
That Columbus· is really like. 
~ And how he got there.
'~'I If that d esn't get us a little un­
nothing will. 
5




\IOICC tt/-J 
-~ 





