y~ l -it' 10 
America's All-Indian Magazine 75c
Dec/Jan 

................... 

. 11~~M~~ff . . .
. 
Indian Voice, the all-Indian monthly maga-. zine, is published by the Native American 

. 
Publishfng Company, a non-profit organiza-. tion, to present an authentic view of the 

. 
American Indian history, culture and heri-. 


tage. It will endeavor to express the hopes, . fears and aspirations of those who are the . . true Native Americans. . 
. EDITOR . 
. FERN WILLIAMS (Dakota) . 
ASSOCIATE EDITOR . DEAN CHAVERS (Lumbee) . 
. ASSa°CIATE EDITOR .
SMOKEY SILENT FOX (Dakota) 
. SECRETARY-TREASURER . . CAROLE STUBBS (Dakota) . 
ILLUSTRATOR . ARCHIE BLACKSMITH (Dakota) . 
. ILLUSTRATOR . 
IDA RYAN (Chippewa) 
. .
. STAFF . 
RUDY CASAZZA CORINNE GARZA 
. (Seneca) (Tlingit-,Haida) . 
. ANN HANSEN WILLARD HARRIS . 
(Acoma-Pueblo) (Navajo) 
. ARTHUR MILLARD LARRY WHITE EAGLE . 
. (Ouechan) (Dakota) . 
. JERRY ROYBAL BERNADINE BEGAY . 
(Jicarilla) (Navajo) 
. ROBERT MEIGS DEBORAH LAMEBULL . 
(Cherokee -Choctaw) (Gros Ventre) 
. ARLENE DILTS NONA KEEVAMA . 
. (Haida) (Hopi) . 
. -----./ . : ""........,....... /f,' ~ . ,r~ . 
. ,~,~.,~--J:::-. 
. ,,~.....--~ . 


. ~= .
. r,,..,,1.-wn• . 
. .
. .

. ~-~~ . 
. Indian Voice is published by Native American Publishing Com-. . pany, a non-profit organization. Manuscripts and art materials . are welcome but no responsibility can be assumed for unso­licited materials. Address all correspondence to: P. 0. Box 2033, 
. Santa Clara, Ca., 95051. Subscription rates $6.00 for 1 year, . · $12.00 for two years and $18.00 for three years. Canadian sub-
What We Hope To Do 

These days it seems as if every group imaginable in America has spokesmen, people who are articulate, who are constantly see TV and heard on radio, who are quoted in the newspapers and n zines. 
There are many spokesmen, all pushing for some special int group's point of view. There are Black Panthers, Brown Be Women's Lib, Gay Lib, Big Labor, and so on. But who speaks for Indian? 
Indians are powerless people on reservations, it is needless to 
out. But perhaps not so needless, because many people seem to for 
the Indian, whose land America was built upon, and whose bo 
pay respect to the might of the White man's army. 
One reason for this lack of power among Indians is the lack of voice speaking for the Indian peqple, one which could tell the t of the Indian to the rest of the world. On the reservations, the pe nel of the Bureau of Indian Affairs (who have been given the po on reservations, and who refuse to give it up), are still giving awa dian land, water rights, oil, gas,minerals, timber, and other I resources. And there is no one to stop them; the tribal councils nothing more than puppets of the Bureau officials. 
The Kennedy committees, and the like, do their part, but don't do enough. The Kennedy Subcommittee is now holding h ings on Indian water rights (and the way the Bureau and the J Department do not protect Indian water rights), at the same · other branches of the government are giving these rights away a as they can. 
But the Kennedy types, though they mean well, are limited in they can do. They can generate a lot of favorable publicity for In · causes, but when the publicity dies, the proposals from these co tees must still go before the Interior committees of the House Senate, and these committees are both filled with anti-Indian em Senators. It's like trusting your daughter to a lecher. 
For too long Indians have been considered the pathetic victims a merciless process of nation-building. The reasoning behind the _p cess said that it was destined by God that a people who so qlll populated and overran the NORTH American continent had superior natural rights to the land, to the resources of the land to the political system necessary to m,aintain a superior position_. 
This reasoning, and the system of government which was built result of it, have systematically excluded Indian people from the tical process, from the rights of self-determination as a people from the .psychic balance necessary for a feeling of control over destiny. 
There is an immediate need for a medium which would give I people this voice, the ability to speak for themselves, and be ab bypass the bureaucrats in the federal government who are cons trying to speak for them. 
.-scribers add $1.00 per year. Copyright applied for. ~ 
This is what we are trying to provide in Indian Voice. We
............................... your support and cooperation to do it. 
"Maybe you'd better find a darker closet ... just in case." 
bathroom, whose fixtures are a mixture

LL-AMERICAN?? 

of European and American inventions, both of recent date. He takes off his Our olid American citizen awakens pajamas, a garment invented in India, b_ed built on a pattern which origin-and washes with soap invented by the an­. 10 the Near East but which was cient Gauls. He then shaves, a ified in Northern Europe before it masochistic rite which seems to have 
tran mitted to America. He throws 

been derived from either Sumer or an­covers made from cotton domes­cient Egypt. thed in India, or linen, dom'esticated · Returning to the bedroom he ~ ear _East, or wool, from sheep, removed his clothes from a chair of home t1cated in the Near East or southern European type and proceeds to 1; e u e of which was discovered in dress. He puts on a garment whose form /· All of these materials have been originally derived from the skin clothing th aoct woven by processes invented of the nomads of the Asiatic steppes, . ear East. He slips into his . shoes made from skins tanned by a
in . s, invented by the Indians of _process invented in ancient Egypt and 
t the 
IND/AN VOICE 1 

ical civilizations of the Mediterranean, and ties around his neck a strip of bright­colored cloth which is a vestigal survival of shoulder shawls worn by the Seventeenth-century Croations. Before going out for breakfast, he clances through the window, made of glass in­vented in Egypt, and if it is raining puts on overshoes made of rubber discovered by the Central American Indians and takes an umbrella, invented in South­eastern Asia. Upon his head he puts a hat made of felt, a material invented in the Asiatic Steppe. 
On his way to breakfast, he stops to buy a paper, paying for it with coins, and ancient Lydian invention. At the restaurant, a whole new series of borrowed elements confronts him. His plate is made of a form of pottery in­vented in China. His knife is of steel, an alloy first made in southern India, his fork is a medieval Italian invention, and his spoon a derivative of a Roman original. 
He begins breakfast with an orange, from the eastern Mediterranean, a cantaloupe from Persia, or perhaps a piece of African watermelon. With this he has coffee, and Abyssinian plant, with cream and sugar. (Both the domestication of cows and the idea of milking them originated in the near East, while sugar was first made in India.) After his fruit and first coffee he goes on to waffles, cakes made by a Scandinavian technique from wheat domesticated in Asia Minor. Over these, he pouts maple syrup, invented by the Indians of the Eastern Woodlands. As a side dish he may have the egg of a species of bird domesticated in Indo­China, or thin strips of the flesh of an animal domesticated in Eastern Asia, which have been salted and smoked by a process developed in northern Europe. 
When our friend has finished eating, he settled back to smoke, an American Indian habit, consuming a plant domes­ticated in Brazil in either a pipe derived from the Indians of Virginia, or a cigarette derived from Mexico. If he is hardy enough he may even attempt a cigar, transmitted to us by way of the Spanish who took it from the Antilles. While smoking, he reads the news of the day, printed in characters invented by the ancient Semites, upon a material invented in China, using a process in­vented in Germany. As he absorbs the accounts of foreign troubles he will, if he is a good conservative citizen, thank a Hebrew deity in an Indo-European language that he is 100 per cent American. 




2 IND/AN VOICE 

_.,,.
; 

But the future may look brighter. Al­Dear Sir: 
To the Editors and others who may have 
the information I seek: 

For a few years I have received letters 
for donations to the St. Labre Indian 
School of Ashland, Montana. Two or 
three times a year I receive requests for 
donations. I am not condemning their ef­
fort to obtain financial aid. 
To my questions: Are these schools, 
though directed or founded by whites, and 
theologians' institutions, meet with your 
approval? Is there information that would 
help me know if I ought to place faith in 
the acceptance of their efforts and results 
of those efforts, as acceptable and desired 
by those concerned. Namely, the children 
and their families? 

Having some knowledge of mission­oriented schools by others of a diff erenJ faith, to teach Indians-Americans-English language, math, etc.-in Brigham, Utah, I am somewhat suspicious of a church-run school, especially if the Christian religion is taught to those whose heritage of a beautiful complement of deity and nature is a most wise one. This fact is becoming prevalent each day of our lives on our crowded, dirty, misused and abused planet. 
A READER 
Palo Alto, Calif. 
Dear Reader: 
Your question is most pertinent at this time, because for the first time since the turn of the century, Indian people are mak­ing moves to take over and run their own schools. Rough Rock Ramah schools are both run by Navajos now, as are Rocky Boy~ Montana and some others. Increas­ingly Indian parents are coming to control their children's education, or at least to have some policy influeftce in those cases where Indian children attend public schools. 

But the outstanding feature of control on most reservation schools ( over 200 of them exist now, and have 53,000 children enrolled) is that they are not controlled by Indian people, but by outsiders, the colo­nial bureaucrats of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, or by missionaries. 
It has been the policy ofthe Bureau since the 1850's that the Indian would have to be placed on the reservation and "civi­lized." The assumption that the teachers and administrators make is that Indian children have no "culture, " and that it is the duty of the teacher to teach the child "white" culture. 
Of course the fallacy is that the child does have his Indian culture, and in effect the school practically makes schizophrenics out of Indian children; they don't know whether to be "Indian" or to be "white." If they become "white," they are in danger ofbeing labelled as traitors, turncoats, sell­outs, to the common enemy, the white man. If they remain Indian, they neces­sarily have to put the school and its pro­gram dpwn. 

th ough the BIA is not granting any con­tracts to local Indian tribes at the moment, because of a shift in the Nixon Indian p olicy, there is hope that the racists in the Bureau and the Department of the Interior m ay die or be removed, and that some p eople with some sense and consideration for the feelings of Indian people will take their places. 

in memoriam ...... . 

This edition is dedicated to Chief ,Eve-· rett Parker (Two Arrows) who was nobody's Indian but his own and who never stopped fighting for his people. 
Unfortunately, he died before seeing his life's work, the epic "The Lost Face of the Cornhusk Doll", in print. 
Fern Williams, Editor 

Dear Sir/ Madame: 

I should like to subscribe to the IN­DIAN VOICE for a year. Enclosed please find a cheque of five dollars. 
NORM D UECK U niversity of British Columbia Vancouver, B.C. 
In future, Canadian subscribers are asked to remit an additional dollar for extra hand­ling costs. 
Dear Sir: 

Please send information con_cerning IN­DIAN VOICE-perhaps a sample copy. I want to send two subscriptions for gifts. 
Heard your appeal last nite on TV. 
CIEL THALINGER 
San Francisco, Calif. 

Sorry, our present supplies are limited and 
we must charge 75 cents for samples. Copy and statement on the way. · 
Readers' comments in the form ofletters or articles are welcome. Indian Voice editors reserve the right to edit material submitted. Please mail your articles to: Editor, P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, California 95050. 
I'm a student at UCLA Creek Indian from Oklah and the recent issue of the T ~~ of your magazine, INDIAi ~ 
I would like to be placed O 
list if possible. The studen~n Y hav~ a 1:1onthly publication~.::. Indian issues and I will be ha you on~ every month if You . 
Contmued success to magazine, INDIAN V01ctu 0 
ETHAN At 
Culver City, Calif. 
Dear Sir: I picked up news of your 

111or•-•1111
address from the latest issue Indian News. I am interested in receiving zine. Please put me on your send me the statement. 
MRs. Eu Window Rock, Ariz. 
Thr;,nk .you for your tion residents receive 
San Jose, Calif. 
February 1971 was the.firstedi( Voice. In our next issue wt'U order blank listing availabillt copies. 
Dear Sir: 
I read in the Catholic Voict wonderful INDIAN VOICE ling the world all about your so I decided to send for some am interested in knowing abo so please mail them to me as can. 
Oakland, Calif. 
Thank you for your interest. 



Meigs' coverage of the six-day flobert tion in Reno, Nevada reveals 
·c. I c~n:t:g split in viewpoints between onu_n nd Urban Indians. A staffer, . rvatI~:rokee-Choctaw is _a stu?ent at · a Cty College and hves m San 
1 . 
Califorma. . . . 

J · I-LIDS, we reprmt h1ghhght~ of Fr rn Ed ard M. Kennedy's probe mto 

ator w . . . 
Government Agencies pr~ct1cmg olling techniques at Indian ex-g-roda a Turtle Mountain Chip-

e 0 ne , · f rn Belcourt, North Dakota who 0 ro d C l"f · 
,eaches school in Haywar., a 1 orma, . this month's cover artist.

gain 
'T', • 
d Bear Anderson, a 1 uscarora, raises · d. h 
lion of sovereignty regar mg t e 

q~ f . "F 
. 'ations Iroquois Cond~derRa~yhm dree­om of Religion?" An In 1an 1g ts a vo­te long before it was popular, ~ad Bear 
on the Tuscarora R.eservadt.10nd n~ahr 

L . ton ew York and 1s ere 1te wit ~1.g M~hawk Richard Oakes' life by ad­
\111 • • f h. 
mini tering Longhouse med1cme a ter w 1te 
h, icians had given up hope. in the "Lumbee Story," Dean Chavers, ociate editor and himself a Lurnbee In­
tan from Pembroke, North Carolina, pre­nt an inside view of his people's quest regain "full" Indian status. Mr. Chavers 3 Ph.D. candidate at Stanford Univet®ty 
nd Ii e in Palo Alto, California. 
1old in the rhetoric of the ancient ones , the late Everett Parker (Two Arrows) ·ho lived on the Tonawanda Reservation ar Buffalo, New York, Chapter I from , book "Lost Face of Cornhusk Doll" l\e a remarkable account of Seneca cul­tur dating back to pre-1492 days. He was i ted by long-time friend Oledoska, a H rward chool teacher who resides in 
r mont, California. 
• any Relocation Indians find themselves unqualified for employment and work mong California's migrant farms. Such is th etting for Richard G. Green's poignant 
ometimes a Lonely Business." Green, a ix \'ations Oneida, is a free-lance writer ho live in San Jose, California. 
Paul War Cloud, a Dakota, allows a 
•mp e of his work in our centerfold· no oubt having inspired a pair of poet~. A oted International artist, he also penned Judge Should Have Training in Indian
1 
~0 ~oli m" and is affiliated with the Al­o ohc Program in Sisseton South Da­o~ Where he resides. ' 
onnan H. Russell's poems (Pages 13,
1 
23) are from his series ''indian

hought " M
Prof · . r. Russell, part Cherokee, is ity ~n1 ~tol~gy at Central State Univer­hves m Edmond, Oklahoma. 

I •
~t][l[gner voice 

"-.... ' ·,, > 


~DtlAf~t 
! 
~ ...-: • 
. • 


tVOIClf l 
\ "11 
VOLUME I DEC/JAN NUMBER 10 
EDITORIALS .......................................................................................... ..................................... 1 MAIL CALL .................................. ............. ................................................................................... 2 
EVENTS 
NCAI's 28th ANNUAL DISSENTION -Robert Meigs . ..... ..... .. .. .. .. ... ................. .... .... ........... ........ .... ..... ..... ..... ... .... ................... 4 
INDIAN RIGHTS 
KENNEDY SUBCOMMITTEE HOLDS WATER RIGHTS HEARINGS -/-LIDS ......................................................................................................................... 5 CHIPPEWAS FIGHT FOR THEIR LAND AND WATER -Staff ................................................................................................. ................... ......... 7 FREEDOM OF RELIGION? -Mad Bear Anderson ... .. .... ..... ... .... ................ ... .. ........ .. ............. ... ... ... .. .. ... .................... 8 
ARTICLES 
FORT BELKNAP RIP-OFF 
-Staff ......................................................................................... .................................... 9 
TEACHING INDIAN CHILDREN -Clair F. Maynard, Sr . ... .......... .......... ... ........ .. .. .. .. .. ..................... .. ....... ............. ... ... ..... 10 THE LUMBEE STORY, PART I (ORIGIN OF THE TRIBE) -Dean Chavers . . .. . . . . . . . .. .. . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. ... ... . . .. . . .. . . . .. ...... . . . . ... . ... . . . . . . .. . . .. .. . . .. . . . . . . . .. .... . 11 JUDGES SHOULD HAVE TRAINING IN INDIAN ALCOHOLISM -Paul War Cloud Grant .............................................................................. ................... 13 
STORIES 
LOST FACE OF CORNHUSK DOLL -Everett Parker (Two Arrows) and Oledoska ................................................................ 14 SOMETIMES A LONELY BUSINESS -Richard G. Green ... . ... .... ... . . . . . .. ... .. ... ... . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . .. .. ...... . . .. .. ... . . . . .. . . . .. . . .. ... ... . ... . 15 
ART 
PENCIL & INK SKETCHES -Paul War Cloud ........................................................................................................... 16 
INDIAN CRAFTS 
NAVAJO RUG WEAVING/PEYOTE STITCH -Staff ............................................................................................................................. 18 
FEATURES 
".. . NO BROTHERHOOD AMONG UNEQUALS" (SPEECH) -Gerald Wilderson, NIYC .............................................................................................. 19 THE CHARACTER OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN -General George A . Custer ............................................................................................ 20 NEW INDIAN POLITICS -Staff ................................................................................ ............................................. 23 WIGWAM EVENINGS, PART III -Charles A. Eastman ........................................................................ ............................. 28 
MISCELLANEOUS 
CURRENT INDIAN BOOKS -Staff ............................................................................................................................. 29 FOUNTAIN OF YOUTH GINSENG -Raven Hail ........................... ........................................................................................ 30 INDIAN DICTIONARY -National Indian Youth Council .................................................................................... 30 A COMMEMORATION -Dorthy W. Davids ... . . .. . . ... . . . . . . . .. .. .. . . .. . . . ... . .. . . . . . . . .. ... ... .. . ... . . . .. . . . . .. . ... . . . . . . .. . . . .. .. ... . . ... ... . . .. 31 NEWS CAPSULE -American Indian Press Association .. .. .. .... ..... ...... .... .. .. .. .. ... ... .. ...... .. .... . .. . ...... .... .. .. .. .. .. . 32 AN INDIAN PRAYER 
IND/AN VOICE 3 
\ ~~ 
,\_ ­

"The wealth which we affect in Europe, such as gold, jewels, pearls and other riches, they hold of no value at all . .. i 
· and they are so liberal in giving that it is the exception when they deny you anything." 



b 


IND/AN VOICE 


NCAl'S 

28th ANNUAL DISSENTION 

"It would be fair to say that the best way to get a heated argument going in an Indian meeting is to speak on the need for unity. But the concern for unity serves to postpone decisions on the real issues in which unity is vital. It is far better to fight over unity than over some­thing crucial to tribal existence." 
Vine Deloria, Jr. 

Custer Died For Your Sins 

Although the established theme of the 28th Annual Convention of the National Congress of American Indians (NCAI) was Pyramid Lake, circumstances soon relegated the Water Rights issue to the shadow of another serious problem of the American Indian: Unity. For several tension-filled days it appeared as though Indian Country would be permanently divided into two camps -Reservation Indians vs. the so-called Urban and Off­Reservation Indian. 
This year's convention was held in Reno, Nevada, from Sunday, November 14th, through Saturday, November 20th. The first signs of a major rift among the delegates began to define it­self during the third general session on Tuesday morning when the members assembled to hear a panel discussion on "Indian Unity: Yes or No?" 
The moderator of the panel was Lee Cook, a Redlake Chippewa, who was until recently a member of Commissioner Bruce's "team". Speaking first, Cook emphasized the need for the Reservations as a land base for Indian identity. Although Cook seemed to im­ply that the NCAI did not recognize Urban Indians he did stress that the NCAI had a "great responsibility to all Indians." 
Mr. Cook was followed by Gerald Wilkerson, a Cherokee member of the National Indian Youth Council, who gave a very eloquent presentation attack­ing the structure of the NCAI and the 

Leon Cook ... new president 
handling of the convention. He accused NCAI of not representing all Indians be­cause the poor, the young, and the urban could not afford to pay the $20.00 registration fee. (The complete text of Mr. Wilkerson's speech is elsewhere in this issue -See Page 19) 
Bill Y oupee, a Sioux and Chairman of the National Tribal Chairman's Associ­ation followed Wilkerson and was in 

The following officers were elected at the annual convention of the NCAI on Nov. 19. The regional vice presidents of NCAI represent regions parallel to the BIA Aria Office structure. 
President 

Leon F. Cook (Red Lake Chippewa) 
First Vice President 
Ronnie Lupe (White Mountain Apache) 
Treasurer 
Helen Mitchell (Quinault) 
Recording Secretary 
Veronica Murdock (Mojave) 
Area Vice Presidents 
Minneapolis: George Goodwin 
(Chippewa) 
Anadarko: Mary McCormick 
(Sauk & Fox) 
Billings: James Ely (Flathead) 
M uskog~e: Catherine White 
Horn (sage) 

Aberdeen: Alvina Grey Bear (Sioux) 
Portland: Walter Moffett (Nez Perce) 
Albuquerque: Victor Sarricino ueblo) 
Alaska: Donald Wright (Athabascan) 
Phoenix: Benson Gibson (Shoshone) 
Sacramento: Erin Forrest (Pit River) turn followed by Dennis Executive Director of American Movement (AIM). Mr. Banks r. much of what Wilkerson had ei all the speakers made a call of or another for unity. 

When the floor was turned ov 
d. f . er 
au 1ence or questions there Were state~ents made by_ those for or allowmg Urban Indians into th This was the beginning of a v: situation that would not ease i the next day after a spectacular p wherein all elements became ern ally involved. 
At the 5th general session h Wednesday morning, Lucy Co· (Portland Area Regional President) presided over the During the argumentation over the stitutional Revisions all hell broke Mrs. Covin_gton became flustered started callmg Urban Indians 0 order whenever they attempted to 

Motions and amendments to m were make in general confusion. planned agenda fell by the way the various factions demanded chance to speak on the various iss an attempt to return to the original da .Mrs. Covington resorted to the Sergeant at Arms force spea the floor. 
Franklin Ducheneaux attemp speak out but was contin interrupted by the Chair. He finally up and told Mrs. Covington "to hell" and walked out of the audit When someone called for the q Mrs. Covington wasn't even sure what motion was in order to be vo 
Both the Fifth and Sixth ge sessions went like this. Finally was taken on tabling one motion another could be voted on. But as far as it went. Not until __sentatives ·from all the various were able to meet in a private ca it even appear that the NCAI wo be united. 
Beyond this fight among the d there were other interesting i about the convention: -On Tuesday the delegates were on a tour of Pyramid Lake. -On Wednesday Commissioner addressed the convention. -On Thursday Vine Deloria, Jr. presentation on Indian Land strategy. 
Future issues of Indian 
carry more complete articles 
and other facets of the 28th Ann 
vention of the National Co 
American Indians. 

KENNEDY SUBCOMMITTEE HOLDS WATER RIGHTS 

HEARINGS 

d s of hearings on the protec­i ~ :xian resource rights were held
1

0 tober 19 and 20, 1971. The hear­d uced instances that were pro voluminous and shocking in 
rou 
of the failure of_ the Fede~al_ ~o­

t to live up to its responsibilities ~o;cting the rights of the first rican " in the words of Senfitor.Ed-
rd . Kennedy, the Subcommittee 
irrnan. d .
In hi opening statement, Kenne y ~it­hief Ju tice John Mars~.all as sarmg t Indian Tribes had an unquest10n­l right to the lands they oc­. They look to our government for i tion." But, said the Massachusetts tor 'Unfortunately this protection not been forthcoming. Across the untry water is being diverted from In­n u e by private parties and federal n ie . More often than not, the n affected never know what is hap ­mg. Far too often the Federal rnment, impressed with a sacred tto protect Indian rights, has looked other way or has sponsored and par­p ted in projects using Indian water." nly if we can reverse the proce­, the inactions, the negativism of t can we give real meaning to self-t rmination for American Indians. If overnment does not act now to pro­Indian resources, there will soon be re ources left to protect," Kennedy 
_n~tor John Tunney (D-Calif.), also tc1pated in the hearings.'There is yet h~hat can and should be done in the nttme under the Executive author­
nd · · 
~~ 1 tmg legislation, to strengthen 0 ttion of the Indians and safe-

rd th · · 
h eir nghts and interests from 
r. erosion," Tunney stated in ting h ' 
c anges in Federal proce­to apply the full power of the 
rnment t th • · . 

..o e protenhon of Indian ~ pecifically, he proposed that the Gary of .the Interior and the Attor­
eneral •
t immediately take corrective

100 
O preserve, protect, determine
Properly d . . .

right a minister Indian lands 
l n to the use of water. ney asked th . .
uate . at Indians be given notice, full and complete infor­
mation, and afforded an opportunity to be heard respecting any decisions, pol­icies, regulations or adjudications affect­ing lands or water rights belonging to In­dians, or in which they claim interest. 
Until the institutional conflict of inter­ests is resolved, "the United States should ... finance and provide adequate competent and independent counsel jn all matters including but not limited to administrative and judicial proceed­ings," Tunney said. In every proceeding administrative or judicial, in which American Indians are represented . . . that representation must be under the direction of the American Indians and .. . with full cooperation of Federal author­ities..." he added. 
Running through the hearings was re­peated reference to the Eagle River case, both as an illustration of the way the United States has abused its trust re­sponsibility, and as the single most ser­ious t~reat to Indian water rights. 
The decision holds that under Title 43, United States Code, Section 666 (the McCarran Public Lands Act), the Unit­ed States consents to be sued in State courts for adjudication of it reserved wa­ter rights within a State. The Court made no distinction between the public rights of the United States and the pri­vate rights of Indian Tribes which the United States holds in trust. In fact, it was silent as to the existence of those pri­vate rights. However, every decision cit­ed by the Court in supporting its deci­sion was an Indian water rights case. 
The question, then, is wheth~r the de­cision applies to Indian water rights. In preparing its "defense" of the case, which many observers believe was more of a political capitulation to W.estern Water interests, the Department of Jus­tice repeatedly denied to lawyers con­cerned about Indian rights that such rights were involved. After several con­versations with Ray Simpsin, attorney for Fort Mojave and other southwest Tribes, the Department of Justice as­sured Simpson, according to his testi­
mony, that a brief would be submitted setting forth the Indian position, after ch~cking the language out with both 
IND/AN VOICE 5 

Simpson and BIA water rights attorney 
Bill Veeder. 
Instead, Justice filed a brief which contained one footnote indicating no In­dian involvement in the decision, with­out checking with either Simpson or Veeder. Simpson, in his testimony before the Subcommittee, called the: Justice Department statement denying. that Indian rights were involved in the decision, "a bald face lie." 
JUSTICE'S ROLE 

Meanwhile, the Justice Department continues to give lip service to its Indian responsibilities. Thus, Solicitor General Griswold told Simpson, "As you know, the Department of Justice has a very strong responsibility and important re­sponsibility to present the Indian pic­ture." 
According to the testimony of Robert Dellwo, representing the Northwest Af­filiated Tribes, the Attorneys General of the States of Idaho and Washington have already expressed the opinion that, under the Eagle River decision, State courts have jurisdiction to litigate water rights of Indian Tribes within their States!! 
The problem is even more burden­some for the Fort Mojave Tribe, which has land and water resources in three dif­ferent States -Arizona, Nevada and . California, and for the Navajo Tribe, whose reservations overlap New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado and Utah. If the decision applies, these Tribes" could be forced to defend their water rights separately and expensively in the Courts of three or four different states, some of which do not recognize the Winters doctrine. 
The Eagle River decision originated in the State of Colorado. Leonard Burch, Chairman of the Southern Ute Tribe which has six major tributaries of th~ Colorado River running through its reservation, testified that the State of Colorado, under authority of the Eagle River case, has required the United States and the Indian Tribes to file water claims in the State Water Court prior to December 31, 1971, for such claims to be considered under State law. On September 30, 1971, the tribe wrote to the U.S. Attorney General for assis­tance, but as of the date of the hearing had had no response. 
As Senator Tunney suggested, the ob­vious step for the Justice Department (as Trustee) to take is to intervene on be­half of the Southern Ute Tribe in the Colorado Water Court and object to the 
(Over) 


6 IND/AN VOICE 
jurisdiction of the Colorado Court to 
adjudicate Indian water rights, which 
would present the question of the effect 
of the Eagle River decision squarely, 
while giving the Tribe more time to pre­
pare water inventories if they must even­
tually succumb to State jurisdiction. 
But, as Frank Maynes, attorney for 

the Southern Ute Tribe testified, the 
United States (Justice Department) 
Attorney in Denver "stated unequivo­
cally that in his opinion the Eagle 
County case did apply to Indian Water 
Rights." 
Thus, the Justice Department failed 

to protect Indian rights in the Eagle 
River case by assuring that Indian rights 
were not involved, and then, a short 
time later, again failed to protect Indian 
water rights from the affects of the deci­
sion by asserting that Indian water 
rights are obviously involved! 

TRIBAL TESTIMONY 

Benny Atencio, Chairman of the All­Indian Pueblo Council, spoke for many at the hearing; his reaction to the Eagle River case: "As Pueblo Indians we do not recognize the theory that our rights to water and other natural resources within our Reservations can be limited restricted or taken away from us by an; State or its citizens. We have lived and used these resources on our land for generations. Our rights to the water have always been inherent in our land base. The non-Indians cannot come into our Reservations or homes and begin to dictate to the American Indian his des­tiny and pursuit of life, especially when that non-Indian is several hundred years behind in the use of water and other resources of our land." 
Kennedy announced at the hearing that he was writing to the Secretary of the Interior "to get a clarification of his interpretation of the Eagle River case, and also a list of the various suits that have been brought against the United States on the authority of that case." 
Other instances, cited at the hearing, of the abuse of the trust responsibility are equally disturbing, but of less gen­eral significance. 
Franklin Decheneaux, testifying for the National Congress of American Indians, pointed out that although In­dian trust resources constitute 3% of the Nation's land, "in some areas, Indian resources constitute the only undevel­oped resource available." Aware of the conflict of interest, the Nixon Adminis­tration has taken no action to tighten up the existing system ~nd stop the steady loss of Indian resources and rights and the continuing damage -to the Tribal estate. 
Ducheneaux described an erroneous survey which in 1880 took 12,000 acres of the Flathead Reservation and put it into the National Forest, with the know­ledge of the Agriculture Department, the Justice Department, and the Interior Department, all of whom went to great pains to prevent the Tribe from finding out. Even now, with interest in the case reawakened, last year a U.S. Senator was told the files documenting the case were "unavailable" by the Interior Department. 
The Bureau of Reclamation, within the Interior Department, attempted, according to Ducheneaux, .to give the State of California a large portion of the Fort Mojave Reservation, and then blocked attempts by the BIA to present the Indian claim to the land in the courts. 
Alex Sherwood, of the Spokane Reservation, told how a white man had bought a ranch on the east side of the Reservation, then applied to the State of Washington and obtained a permit to divert the Shimikin Creek away from the Tribe. The Tribe was without Federal help and protection from either Justice or Interior until Veeder and Phil Corke, a hydrologist working with the BIA, intervened. (Veeder and Corke were among those whom assistant Inter­ior Secretary Harrison Loesch attempt­ed to transfer out of Washington, D.C., earlier this year.) 
Lucy Covington of Colville Reserva­tion described three dams on the Col­umbia River built by the Bureau of Reclamation, one of which, ironically, is named the Chief Joseph Dam. There is "A lot of water, but not one inch of it goes to the Colville Reservation," she testified. Nor has the Tribe been compensated for the lost water. 
It was in connection with the Chief Joseph Dam· that BIA Superintendent William Head had written that, "for the Indians, salmon wasn't a big thing, so there was no use putting in a fish lad­der," according to the testimony of Mel Tonasket, Chairman of the Affiliated Tribes of the Colville Reservation. The Army Corps of Engineers then built the dam without fish ladders, depriving the Tribe of its salmon as well as _its water, all without compensation. 
Benard La Sarte, Chairman of the Couer d'Alene Tribal Council, reported several instances in which Tribal re­sources had been plundered, without the intervention of the Federal trustees. A private dam was built on the Coeur d'Alene, by the Washington Water Power Company flooding Lake Coeur d'Alene, a lake which is entirely within the Reservation. This removed 100,000 
acres of land from the Reservaf The St. Joe River runs thlo 
. ro 
same Reservat10n, and the 
Idaho issues permits to use th 8t 
non-Indians. The water upon e 
Indians depend has become w 
but the Tribe has received no 
. f . 1 co
hon or its oss of water ri 
Tribe believes it should have gh 
. f co
t.he issuance o water use permits nver. La Sarte recalled another in which the Department of th/ 
had authorized the clear-cuttin 
acres of Tribal timberland with! 

bal consent. ut 
Although Secretary of the In Rogers C.B. Morton, in the same ber 4th press conference at w · announced the creation of the Water Rights Office had stated, "I recommended to the Justice ment that it file suit to protect ground water rights of the LU111JDi dians in the State of Washingt 1Lummi Tribal Chairman Vernon testified that the Tribe has heard ing." ' 

NO CONSULTATION 

The various testimony at the made clear that even in those · where the trustee did act in accord the interests of his Indian benefi · such actions had been taken · consultation and often without inf; ing the Indians of the action. 
Kesley Edmor, Chairman of the shone-Bannock Tribes, and Angela terfield, combined to tell how the Air Force had taken 3,135 acre Tribal land for an airbase durin Second World War, (after provi · assurance that the land would be turned in improved condition after war) and then sold the land at auction to the City of Pocatello. Tribe was never paid for the land. 
Although there are n umerou stances of construction by the B Reclamation of dams to divert from Indians, getting dams built fi dians, seems to be another sto · Fort Hall, the Batty Creek Dam the Tribe has sought since l928, was prepared to pay the SO construction it would then ha would now cost approximate million, which the Tribe does not bl 
Yakima Chairman Robert Jim t another "erroneous survey" which included 21,000 acres of Yakima . a National Forest. The Yakimas litigation which took 30 years. n: the law suit but the Governm has not retu'rned the land. Said 

(See 


with the tribe at the 20, 30, and 40 year points. None of these renegotiating sessions took place, Baker pointed out. 


CHIPPEWAS FIGHT THEIR LAND AND WATER 


Eddie Benton, the militant director of the American Indian Movement in St. Paul, and the president of the "Save the Chippewa Flowage Alliance", who was also at the meeting with the Governor and Senator, pointed out that the Northern States Power had in the pro­cess of taking the land for flowage flooded land belonging to Indians without compensating them for it, had destroyed their wild rice beds, washed away the graveyards of the people, and had destroyed one whole village by flooding. 
The company was supposed to have rebuilt the village and relocated the graveyard, but to this date they have done neither one. 
When the Chippewa were asked in 1921 if they wanted the Flowage project, which would control floods as well as create hydroelectric power by releasing water to flow down the Chippewa River 
ROBERT FREEMAN 
-_:--=------­
_ ..-:;:,. 

--:. :--::= -=-,,,,,... 
-
-----... _­

~ , /J
How. WE COME IN Pf ACE '/ 
IND/AN VOICE 7 

during the winter months, they said "no" to the project three times. But federal legislation overrode them,and in the end they got the project anyway one of the early examples of flooding an Indian res­ervation to benefit the people down the river, or somewhere else off the reserva­tion, at the expense of reservation Indians. 
For the first 18 years of the life of the 

project, the Lac Court Oreilles did not 
receive any payment for the lands, and 
after that they received $200 a year ­
for 6,000 acres of land, some of which is 
valuable resort land. 
What they are asking now is the 

return of their lands which are now in 
the project, so they could come under 
Indian control and management. The 
band, as well as many of the resort 
owners and other local townspeople, 
charge that the management by the 
power company has done heavy damage 
to the ecology of the area, and that the 
Indian control would take the ecology 
into greater consideration. 
Under the terms they are trying to get 

Northern States to agree to, they would 
get 6,000 of the 17,000 acres of the 
flowage project back, and this 6,000 
acres would be managed for wildlife and 
recreational purposes only. 
Among the other demands, the band 

is insisting that the power company 
construct a memorial to those lost in the 
flooding of the-graves, because the 
graves can never be recovered. The 
company was supposed to stock the 
flowage with fish as well; this has not 
been done, they said, and they are 
demanding that it be done now. (Some 
environmentalists, however, believe that 
the control of the flowage by the 
company has polluted the water so bad­
ly that fish cannot live in it.) 
They are also asking for a report on 

the resorts now paying rent to the power 
company; these should have been paying 
rent to the Indians instead of the 
company for 50 years, and the Indians 
want the rent. Finally, they want the 
company, Whom they feel is trespassing 
on Indian land to leave. 
The band has been joined by resort owners, townspeople, conservationists, and Governor Lucey and Senator Nelson in their fight to regain their lands. Nelson has agreed to introduce legislation in Congress asking for the return of the 6,000 acres to the tribe, and further asking that the entire project ­17,000 acres -by placed under federal control because of the damage to the environment done by the company. 
None of this political activity would have been possible, some think, if the 
(See Page 22) 



8 IND/AN VOICE 
FREEDOM OF RELIGION?? 
~o 

In the summer of 1970 four young Indians went AWOL from the U.S. Army so they could attend a week-long Indian religious encampment in the state of Washington. All four had 'applied for military leave to attend the encamp­ment, and all had been denied. When they returned to the Army they were punished. 
When the four ofthem came to the en­
campment, they were not not at all sure 
why they were there. During the course 
ofthe week they talked with Indian relig­
ious leaders from all over the North 
American continent who had gathered 
there. And when the week was out they 
knew whaithey had to do; they filed for 
dismissal from the military on the 
grounds of Conscientious Objector sta­
tus, as being contrary to their natural In­
dian religion. 

One ofthe leaders at the encampment 
was Mad Bear Anderson, who has been 
working for some time in the area of In­
dian rights, and specifically on the ques­
tion of Indian youth facing the draft. He 
presented his findings from the law to 
the four young men and they are printed 
below. (Editors) 

According to International law,. only Nations have the legal right to enter into treaty, relations with one another by rea­son of their sovereignty. 
The Draft Laws of the United States would violate the sovereignty of any In­dian Nation, or enrolled member there­of, who still has an active treaty with the U.S., unless such a treaty specifically agreed to such a provision through mu­tual consent. · 
The vast majority of Indian treaties with the U.S. are known as "Peace Trea­ties", and specifically refrain from en­couraging the Indian to enter into any warfare whatsoever. Thus the saying, "The Indian has buried the hatchet!" 
The Six Nations of the Iroquois Con­federacy are regarded as "allies of the .United States", and have agreed through treaty to assist the United States. 
(It should be noted here how­ever, that U.S. Indians have always had the highest record of enlistments in the Armed Services of the United States, ac­cording to their survey arid population. 
U.S. Govt. Indian Survey-1948, pg 41) 

Regardless of their records however, honorable discharged Indian veterans of the Six Nations are still being denied GI Loans or Grants for the purpose of building a decent home for themselves and their families. A TERRIBLE WRONG!!! 
The old argument that "Indians are citizens of the United States by virtue of the 1924 Citizenship Act, and are thus. subject to the draft laws of the United States", is pure nonsense because: 
(a) 
Forced Citizenship violates Inter­national Law. 

(b) 
Forced Citizenship violates our treaties and the sovereignty of our In­dian Nations. 

(c) 
Forced Citizenship violates Article 6 Section 2 of the United States Consti­tution which reads; "This constitution and the Laws of the United States, which shall be made in pursuance there­of, and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the Unit­ed States, shall be the Supreme Law of the land ... " 

(d) 
The Six Nations Iroquois Confed­eracy strongly and unanimously op­posed the passage of the Citizenship Act, and still regard it as illegal! 

(e) 
QUESTION: If an Indian denoun­ces his so-called citizenship of the Unit­ed States, and pledges his allegiane'e to his own respective Indian Nation, is he deported, and if so to where? 

(f) 
QUESTION: Can a citizen of the United States have a legal treaty with his 


own Nation? 

(g) The 1924 Citizenship Act (regard­ing Indians) referred to Indians, 
· " ... within the territorial limits of the United States ... ", so this would not in­clude Six Nations Indians whose Treaty of Nov. 11, 1794 with the U.S. reads; "The United States acknowledge the .lands reserved to the Oneida, Onondaga and Cayuga Nations, in their respective treaties with the State of New York, and called their reservations, to be their property; and the United States will never claim the same, nor disturb them or any of the Six Nations, nor their In­dian friends residing thereon and united with them, in the free use and enjoyment thereof: but the said reservations shall re­main theirs, until they choose to sell the same to the people of the United States, who have the right to purchase". · 
Section 2 of Presidental Proclamation 2572, in reference to the draft, reads; " .. .it shall be the duty of every male citi­zen of the United States ... ", and -it fur­ther states; (in section 3a of the said pro­clamation), "all persons liable for train­ing and service shall be the following; 
every male citizen of the Unite or person who has declared hi .d to become such a citizen ,, 8 n
1
would only ap~lr then to..indi he 
had accepted citizenship in th a States by their own will or Vo~. had made a declaration of inte ~~ 
come such a citizen! n 
Extracts and court citations t Volume 157 No. 9 of the Non: Reporter, dated Sept. 13, 192?, (l 

after the passage of the 1924 Ci · ~ct). bears out ~~ contention that dians are not citizens of the States. 
In Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pete 8L. ED. 483, Chief Justice Mars speaking of the relation created treaty between the U.S. and the kee Nation said; "This relation was of a Nation claiming and recei~ protecti?n .o! one more powerful, t~at of mdiv1duals abandoning their tlonal character, and submitting as 
jects to the laws of a master." 
In People ex. rel. Cusick v. Daly N.Y. 183, 105 N.E. 1048, the through Judge Werner said: "The dians although native sons of our are not citizens either of the Nati State. They are her,alded as the w the Nation, and in their collective city they have been referred to the of foreign nations with whom the fi Government has entered into treaty tions." 
These findings are not intended to courage Indians from accepting ci · ship in the United States, volun joining.the.Armed Forces of the U States, or becoming "conscientious jectors", but rather to protect those dians to whom it applies, in order they may more fully enjoy their · and privileges as "treaty-India whose only desire is to live .in peace all mankind. 

And lastly, but most important, Draft Laws of the United States s never be forced upon a religious I or Indian Chief, who has swo "sacred oath" to his Creator, "...that bury all his weapons of war beneath ·Sacred Tree of Peace, and teach brother to obey THE GREAT ~A PEACE." and especially a Chief of .Six Nations Iroquois Confede~acy to do this would be a crime again5t 
, and GOD. 
-by Mad 
Six Nations Iroquois 


series of articles describing reservation 
conditions, political actions, tribal 
governments, and other events which 
effect Indians. In particular we will be 
looking at the actions of the people who control Indian affairs -the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the tribal councils and the tribal chairmen. 
This month's article is about the way the Fort Belknap Agency in Montana was indebted for $450,000, and the reasons why. (The Editors) 
FORT BELKNAP RIP-OFF 

paid by Fort Belknap Builders. 
The catch in all this is that the tribal attorney, Donald Marble, had an in­terest in Economic Consultants. He stood to gain from the transaction no matter what happened. 
To start up Fort Belknap Builders Inc., the tribal council borrowed $350,000 from the Towe Banks of Montana. With this initial capital, they 
,, WAl TIN6-rOR orv£'s 
R\GrHT~, ~ \JR.E &lVEC:> 

A ?ER.S'C>N H\G-t'\ 

CI-\EEK.T3<>NES" 
IAIOIA.111 • CSl<IM• 6uU.•r1N 


built a factory and office building for construction of homes with $150,000 of the money, and used the other $200,000 as capital to get contracts from the federal government to build houses on the reservation, and to set up training of tribal members in the construction trades. 
In the meantime, the "management consultants" began flying around the country, running up expehses. To date, the debt of the Builders is $450,000, and on October 29th, the offices were closed until the operation could be re­
. organized.-An accountant who was brought in after the huge debts were run up found that there was no sufficient accounting system set up, one of the reasons for the huge debts, no doubt. From July 1 to December 31, 1970, "no journals of any kind were maintained", he said. 
In addition, there was no inventory; no budget; very high costs of travel, administrative, and promotion; there were many employee advances without proper authority; misuse of funds by an officer of Economic Consultants; and deliberate misclassification of oalance sheets. in the words of the attorney who was hired to investigate the set up of the Builders, "there could be a good possibility that certain expenditures were in violation of fiduciary rela­tionships and could very well be cri­minal in nature". 
The lawyer recommended to the tribal council that the corporation be placed in bankruptcy and "no more capital or effort be committed in attempting to sal­vage said business". 
The Fort Belknap Agency of the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) is under the control of the Billings, Montana Area Office, one of eight such offices in the U.S. The people who live on the reservation are Gros Ventres and Assiniboine Indians. The tribal council has certain authority on the reservation, but its actions are subject to review and cancellation by the Area Office. Thus it is ultimately up to the Area office to oversee Indian Affairs in its area. In this 
case, as in several . others around in Indian country, the BIA has one again let Indian people down. 
Where do we turn next? Who will pay the debts of the Builders Corporation at Fort Belknap? "The people" is the answer to both questions. The BIA is letting Indians down, so it will 
have to be Indians who take charge. 
~ 


10 IND/AN VOICE 


TEACHING INDIAN CHILDREN 

+

Within the past few years, the Indian Indian culture, Indian language and In­few moments and sit in your 
has become the 'In Person'. Schools, for 
years, have sent their recruiters into 
Indian country to seek out the 
outstanding athletes for their football, 
basketball and baseball teams. In return 
the school would provide various in­
centives, such as a job at school or 
nearby, a tuition scholarship, and free 
room and board. The hard-presses rural 
districts neighboring Indian reservations 
welcomed the Indian student because 
government funds were provided for 
daily tuition attendance. Now there 
seems to be ample funds provided so 
that no Indian student need be denied 
the opportunity to strive for an edu­
cation and fo qualify himself for the job 
or position of his choice. 

Then why do such a high percentage 
of Indian children drop out before they 
complete high school? If there are prob­
lems encountered, can those problem 
areas be identified? If the problem can 
be identified before the student has 
made the decision to drop out, can it be 
solved? Perhaps a little timely counsel­
ing and assistance at the proper time 
would prevent students from dropping 
out. Small study rooms provided in 
school, staffed with a counselor-teacher 
for every ten Indian students, would cer­
tainly not be dollars wasted compared to 
the initial investment of money spent to 
provide college expenses. 

But those counselor-teachers would have to be staffed with personnel who really understand the Indian, and who have had actual experience with teach­ing Indian children from the. beginning grades on up. There is much that teach­ing elementary Indian children can of­fer. Without this experience in the ele­mentary field, the high school teacher of Indian children . may be found lacking in his understanding of the Indian stu­dent. One who has actually lived on or adjacent to the Indian reservation and knows the Indian environment, the cul­ture, the language, and the problems will have a better foundation for teaching Indian children. 
A counselor-teacher of Indian chil­dren needs to be acquainted with the In­dian leaders, friends and relatives among their people. Their home-ties are strong. Only in this way will be become accepted and trusted by the Indian stu­dent. It probably also holds true that the Indian counselor-teacher must not only have a broad theoretical knowledge of dian anthropology but he must be sensi­
tive to Indian traditions, Indian religion, 
Indian systems of values and tribal cus­
toms. 

A second language never hurt anyone. 
Your author knew a radio announcer 
who spoke seven different languages 
and never became confused or mixed in 
their spoken dialetcs. If the counselor­
teacher doesn't know that "paha" means 
hill; "auguwapi" means bread; or that 
"hoksila" means boy, then he must qual­
ify himself by extension classes in the La­
kota language. If the counselor-teacher 
doesn't know that it is wrong to sit a boy 
on the same seat or blanket with his sis­
ter, then he must study further in Indian 
culture. If the counselor-teacher doesn't 
know that not only is the Indian very 
sensitive to feelings and expressions, and 
loud, harsh voices, then he had best en­
roll in a course in voice training and 
speech. 

If the counselor-teacher doesn't know that Indians work best in small groups and committees rather than as indepen­dent individuals, then he should review his course on Indian customs. Group en­deavor is why Indians make such good basketball players. 
If the counselor-teacher doesn't know that an Indian measures his esteem not in· his acquisition of material goods and wealth, but by how much he is able to contribute to help his people, then he should enroll in a course of Indian psy­chology and Indian values. 
If the counselor-teacher thinks he can successfully teach a large class of Indian students by the lecture method, which may be the easiest method of teaching, then he again missed the boat and should delve into the method used by· Socrates and learn more about indivi­dualized instruction, and the stimulus­object-response method of instruction and logical skills. 
If the counselor-teacher harangues and tongue-lashes, rather than offering positive praise where praise is due, then he has taken the wrong fork in the road toward real learning and has lost his way. 
If the counselor-teacher,upon visiting the home and parents of the student, drives up and rushes to knock on the door, taking a ten-to-one chance of be­ing bitten by their watch dog, then he must learn the proper approach. Do not take the salesman's approach. Take a one will come to your car and car. 
.. D , ma 

you to come m. on t make th of using the salesman's app e rush the situation. Once invf:~ an Indian's home you may 'break the ice' by visiting with t;an about whom you know that the and how you happened to know you don't k!'low any of their acq . ces or relatives, you were not to visit them in the first place! p 
Also, it is well to ~~ow that the custom toward a v1s1tor is to fi and share with the visitor who household; then after the meal fee, has been partaken, then th; 0 r about 'Who You Are' and whom know that they know, relati friends, will follow. 
A counselor-teacher who pu · Indian child physically or causes · be put in a situation for punishment never be forgotten. The Indian wonderful and exceptional m mo Men talk to men; women talk to man of the household when visitin 
If the counselor-teacher would get some message across to an indi · student, do not attempt to do this the class . .It just won't work. peer of that individual student' talk to that leader concerning w would like to confer_to that third the student. Only by this triangular ion of communication will you cessful. For example, suppose dian girl in class has been making sance of herself by giggling and ing to others, annoying the class in eral. The wise and experienced or-teacher will have selected a f · leader she admires, and will talk third person in private, not the 
You will be amazed at what a 
will occur. 
In every Indian-student cl there will be one who is the ou leader; the counselor-teacher discover who this person is. For pie, your writer was teaching a thirty-five Indian pupils in grade, many of them over-age._ the first semester, they had e . four teachers, and now dun second semester, it was to pleasure to condition them; something of order out of a c uation. The leader of this happened to be a girl fourteen physically muscular and tough 




(Set 


THE LUMBEE STORY_ 
on Berry has pointed out so m h of the vanishing Indian myth. Although the .Indian ,.•taon d clined drastically between I it ha been on the rise in u · T_he Indian population fi­. d m the 1970 census will al­mly approach the most com­pt d pre-Columbian figure of OOO· the 1960 census total was 
h ha re ulted in some ironies he face of. the popularly held _ ...,-lllra....of the e ironies is that the t l~di~n group in the na­. 1thm 100 miles of one of ite of English occupation 
oa t. (Indian Historian p 
re · • ' · 
are s1m1lar groups all t oa t; see Berry and In­d\;bo~e.) Instead of being white colonists as they
ard th·
I . is group has re-
o proximity to its original 

Origin of the Tribe 


homelands, and has increased in popula­tion. . This second-largest Indian group is not, however, homogeneous. They are descended from several Indian tribes, from white settlers who intermarried with Indians, and from freed and run­awiy slaves. They have been called by various names over-the years, Croatan, Cherokee, and Lumbee being the three most common. It is by the last name that they are known today. In 1956 the U.S. Congress passed an act recognizing them as a distinct Indian tribe, but at the same time explicitly denying them any special services or privileges allowed to other Indian people. The most intriguing phenomena in the mind of this writer, who belongs to this group, as well as in the minds of many of the other members of the group, and sev­eral writers, anthropologists and histor­ians, is the identity of these people. From a simple perusal of a list of family . names it is apparent .that the origins of families varies; there are English, Irish, Scottish, Turkish and Indian-derived names. Studying other artifacts of the distinct culture, such as burial customs, speech patterns and so on, would lend support to· the two dominant theories as to Lum bee origi11 and identity. Both theories ·are doubtlessly valid and insightful in their attempts to deter­mine Lumbee origin, but neither is strong enough to stand on its own, to ex.;. plain all the variation, so to speak. This paper will look at both, and suggest the incorporation of the two, as well as their further elaboration. 
I 

The Lumbee Indians of Ro beson County, N.C. have called themselves by this name only since the early l 950's. During this period the leaders among them were agitating for a non-pejorative tribal name. Prior to 1956 the tribal des­ignation had been officially "Indians of Robeson County", having been changed to that by the General Assembly of North Carolina in 1911. This earlier change was somehow thought necessary to clarify the status of the Lumbees, be­cause the same state legislature had des­ignated them as '"Croatan Indians" in 1885. This term quickly took on pejora­tive connotations through usage by local ­whites. 
The designation as uindians of Robeson County" did not, however, take the sting out of the term "Croatan". 
IND/AN VOICE 11 

Robeson County is racially trichotom­
ized into whites, Blacks, and ·Lumbees, 
and the race question is very central to 
the question of Lumbee identity. The 
Lumbees have long fought racial dis"". 
crimination; since the first whites settled 
in the area in the l 730's and found them 
tilling the soil, there has been a largely 
attitudjnal battle between the two races 
within the county. The local whites try 
to undermine Indian attempts at self­
determination, to downgrade efforts 
aimed at strengthening Indian identity, 
and the Lumbees are constantly on the 
defensive, trying to approach some econ­
omic and social parity with the whites. 
As a result of this struggle, all apella­

tions in time have gained a pejorative na­
ture. Lumbee has been the official title 
of the tribe since 1956, and only time 
will tell how much this name comes to 
rankle. "Croatan", "Hatteras", 
'"Scuffletonians", and otliers have lost 
desirability over the years, because they 
inevitably, it seems, come to sound like 
"Nigger" when they come tripping off 
the tongue. 
The struggle for identity is· central to ·the great majority of the Lumbees. Be­
cause of their lower social status, it 
seems to have acquired a higher-than­
usual importance. The part of the South 
(and the accompanying ideology) have 
largely determined and made salient this 
question of identity. And it is this 
struggle for identity which has focused 
so much attention on the two dominant 
theories of Lum bee origin. 
The most popular of the two is the 

"Lost Colony" theory. According to its 
proponents, the Lumbee are the descen­
dants of the intermarriage by Croatan 
(Hatteras) Indians and the colonists left 
on Roanoke Island in 1587 by agents of 
the English adventurer Sir Walter 
Raleigh. There is supposed to have been 
an agreement between Governor John 
White and the Colonists that they would 
leave carved into a tree the name of the 
place to which they moved, if they 
moved while he went to England for sup­
plies: (see White in Hawks, V.l, p. 225). 
When he returned three years later, they 
were gone, and carved into a tree was 
the word CROATAN, a location on 
Hatteras Island 50 miles to the south. 
The dire-ctions were necessary, W h1te 
says, because " ... at my coming away 
they were prepared to remove from 
Ro_anoak fifty miles into the main" 
(White, in Hawks, V.l, p.225). 
· What happened to the colonists, the 
theory says is that they moved to Croa­
tan, the location of a village of Hatteras 
Indians, and when White failed to return 
( even after he found the directions at 
Roanoke, circumstances forced his ships 
(Over) 

12 IND/AN VOICE 
to the Indies) they intermarried with the Hatteras Indians (sometimes called Cro­atans after the piace name) and moved inland-100.miles sometime between 1587 and 1730. According to Barton and others, there is little inconsistency be­tween the disappearance of the White colony and the appearance in recorded history of a band of obviously mixed­bleed Indians in Robeson County in the 1730's, at lea~t no inconsistency which would be caused by the Lawson finding (of the Hatteras Indians) that "These tell us that several of their ancestors were white people, and could talk in a book, as we do; the truth of which is confirmed by grey eyes being found frequently amongst these Indians, and no others." (Lawson, p. 69) 
There is apparently no record of this group between Lawson's "History" of 1709 and the documents of the early white settlers of Robeson County about 1730. The settlers found Indians there, holding lands in common, but tilling the soil, speaking English, and practicing "many of the arts of civilization" (McMillan, preface). Barton explains the apparent inconsistency of having the colonists move 50 miles "into the main" (according to White) about 1587-88, and the Hatteras Indians seen by Lawson, by saying that there was communication and traffic between the coast and the Robeson County site, which is 100 miles from the coast. 

Barton appears to have valid grounds for saying this; several times this writer has been told (by very· old members of the tribe) that before the age of auto­mobiles there was annual horse-and­wagon traffic to the coast each fall to catch fish and gather salt. This practice is greatly diminished today, but it is still usual for Lumbees to make a week's camping stay on the coast, catching and preserving fish. 
But stressing the fact of relatively great mobility among early Indians (and it is a fact) argues against the "Lost Colony" theory to some extent. The the­ory implies that the entire Lumbee· pop­ulation grew out of this intermarriage be­tween the 121 stranded colonists and the Hatteras (Croatan) Indians. But mobil­ity among tribes, combined with other phenomena such as the slave trade in In­dians (Milling p.53,p.220,etc.), and the fact that the present site of the Lumbee settlement was until the mid-nineteenth century largely inaccessible swamp­lands, point to a less concise but more plausible explanation of origin: namely, that harassment from white settlers drove Indians from many tribes into the swamps. 
This explanation also more or less subsumes the second most popular the­ory, which says that the Lumbees are de­scended from Cherokees who fought with the English against the Tuscarora in the war of 1711-13 under Colonel John Barnwell of South Carolina, and who remained in the swamps of Robe­son County when the campaign ended (Oxendine, p.4) But Barnwell's record of troops shows no Cherokees in his com­pany (Rights, p. 54-55); later research also casts doubt on whether he marched through Lumbee country on his way to the campaign (Holloman, 2, p. 28). (Follo-wing the defeat of the Tuscaroras, the survivors who were not captured and sold as slaves started a trek northward to join the Five Nations in New York State, and in 1715 they became the Sixth Nation (Milling, pp. 131 ff). But Barn­well and his South Carolina Indian allies had captured some Tuscaroras under the pretenses of peace talks, and follow­ing the campaign carried these Tusca­rora to South Carolina to be sold into slavery. The record of their final dispos­ition is not clear, but it is likely, or high­ly possible, that they at some point joined other white, Negro and Indian refugees from the English in the Robe­son swamps (Rights, p.144 ff).· The last record of Tuscaroras in South Carolina is 1802 (Rights, p.59). 
Oxendine (p. 3) and ·others have never­theless taken at face value the oral tra­dition amorig · the Lumbees that their" forefathers participated in the Tuscarora campaign with Colonel Barnwell, and therefore had some origin in the Chero­kees. Although there were no Cherokees in the Barnwell campaign of early 1712, there were Cherokees in the force led by Colonel James Moore of South Carolina the following year. This leads one to suspect that the "oral tradition" of participation in the Tuscarora War was started by the original propagator of the "Lost Colony" theory, Hamilton McMillan, and that his facts became dis­torted in the telling. 
The truth of the Lumbee origins (which will probably never be settled satisfactorily because of the paucity of written documents) is probably that all the theoretical population sources con­tributed to the present population. Swanton believes that the Keyauwees of the Carolina Piedmont, the Waccamaws of the lower Cape Fear region near Wil­mington, and the W occon of the central coastal region of North Carolina, all pro­bably of Siouan linguistic stock, were the major tribes which evolved into the people known today as Lumbees. All three of these have now otherwise dis­appeared except for a small b Waccamaw who now live on th and of Lake Waccamaw in the heart sh old country. But from a look at thof all picture from 1587 to the pre e
• • . sent 
gests ot her mtngumg possibilitie 

In 1600 there were 28 or 2;· . tribes living wholly or partly in 1hat now North Carolina. Today th:e · five groups -Cherokees, Lu b W~ccama_ws, -~milings, Hali~ which are identified as Indians or Indian. related. Of these five, only the Ch 
. d' . ero 
remam as a istmctly unified 

. h . 'b 1 · &ro
wit umtary tn a ongins, and With distinct ~ultu~e. and language. The 0four are identified for practical pu a~ b_eing "of Indian orig~n"; there arc distmc! langu~ges remaming, and t . collective past is a mystery. There is · doubt that most of the tribes extinct shortly after European con largely from European diseases and fare. The Cherokee and Tuscarora alo h_ave survived as !ribes; the others ha either become extmct or faded into 0 of the mixed-blood groups. The groups also included refugee whites, free and slave Negroes as well, lea · one writer to refer to them as "tri-· isolates" (see Barry, p.40). It is to · categor~ that the Lumbee belong. 
Mobility of native populations is o reason for thinking that the Lum have their origins in heterogeneous tional and racial groups. Swanton traced this mobility in the East to o extent (Rights, · plate 59). In addition to the Keyauwee, Waccamaw, and Woccon already mentioned, the Cheraw, Eno and Waxhaw migrated from piedmont South Carolina northeast to the north­central part of North Carolina, then back south again to the point on the P Dee River just south of the border of two Carolinas. From this point, which : only 30 miles from the "Lumbee capi­tal", Pembroke, they could have (I) joined the Catawbas 60 miles to the (the only remaining r~ser,vation in South Carolina), (2.) joined the LumbeeS miles to the east in North Carolina 
(3) remained in one of the other s . isolated communities in South Caro (see. Berry). Since the Lumbee ~op tion is relatively large in compa!1son any of these other communities, it only logical to conclude that some of Indian groups who contributed to 0 communnities also migrated to the bee River swamps and joined ~he. cestors of the Lumbee there. This course no better than an educated which put it on the same level as the er explanations of Lumbee histol'Y• 
(See fagt 







voGES SHOULD HAVE TRAINING 
:N INDIAN ALCOHOLISM 

s 90 percent of the Indian 
rna0J/appear before judges for 

I . wraction of the law have been 
. inf This is proveh from the re~­on ing. ld venture to say that this 
I wou f 

. . ht be 100 percent on some o 
rn1g . 

. 0 reservations. r I~d•a very unfortunate that some It I e~\thers in the law know little ah~ g about Indian alcoholism. 
not in . h h 
. various reservations t roug out ,ungDakota we found that the poor
uth ' f bl. . 
I. who is arrested or pu 1c m­

ho 1c 
. t·o n simply does not have a 
I I h h "0 d ,,
Chances are t at t e JU ge h~ i. appointed, and not elected) is much in need of help as the alco­
t a f h. .
who stands be ore 1m, not m

11 
of drinking, but in terms of under­nding the alcoholic or hi_s problem. The "judge" is also the Jury, prosecu­
jailor and counselor all in one. He is 
r. upreme being on some of our In­nre ervations. One "judge" we found on a reserva­1 n wa there just to punish the alco­li and nothing else. It was obvious 
way he talked that he knew little out Indian alcoholism or its causes. It wa also obvious that the law and 
rder department was obstructing and hampering progress toward a wOFking alcoholism program, since there was no cooperation with the already teetering al­cohol program there. In fact the "judge" and his little department were doing more harm than good to the community by the way they handled their problem drinkers. The only reason he has the position is that he has a little pull "upstairs". 
We interviewed concerned people, who said that BIA personnel on the re­servation who had a drinking problem were seldom arrested. They were instead driven home in police cars and the poor fellow who had no pull with the people' "upstairs" was thrown in jail, fined, and beaten. 
It's a hard fact too, that Indian Police' are more brutal to their fellow Indians than they are to BIA personnel. These things are going on right now, and have been for years, and they need looking in­to. In one place we visited, problem drinkers were thrown into a black box and practically starved if they were too sick to work. 
All this is simply not helping the prob­lem drinker or the community at ·all. On the contrary, it is making him worse and is prolonging the matter for the com­munity. The shameful medieval tactics willjust have to go! 
Judges and JP's who handle Indian problem drinkers should have to attend an Indian Al~oholism Program training session before assuming a position of' judging an Indian problem drinker. In 
IND/AN VOICE 13 
JUST PUBLISHE·o! 



"LOST FACE OF COJlNHUSK DOLL" .by 
Everett Parker (Two Arrows) 

and Oledoska 



panther cannot hide in the tree /i rthe leaves of the tree tremble 10 tell me where he is 
h the bird who does not touch the leaves c n hide in the tree 
u, 1he leaves of the aspen tremble hen there is no tiger among them 
'he panther had the cunning of the man 110uid hide in the aspen leaves 
u'he man the favorite of the gods1h01 they h . . 
ave given him such cunning? "'them h
an as not the strength of the panther "'them h
an as not the speed of the antelope "' the man has not the long life of the tree llher th 
u h e man nor the tree nor the panther , efavorite of the gods the god h 
s ave no favorite creature h 
s are t e favorite of the gods. 
-Norman Russell 

fact, it is so important it should be a must -especially in Indian reserva­tions. It's bad enough that our tribal jud­ges know little or nothing about law; but the matter has to be compounded ·by a lack of understanding about Indians and drinking. 
It's up to District Leaders to look into this serious matter since they are the ones who will eventually be the judge. Judges will just have to realize that pun­ishing an alcoholic for public intoxica­tion does not work at all. 
Let's face it, our main problem on re­servations is alcoholism. This is a pure hard fact. Let's all pitch in and help the alcoholic who needs help and wants help. 
Paul "War Cloud" Grant 

(Reprinted from Sota Eya Ye Yapi; Sisseton, S. D.) 

·Please mail to: Native American Publishing Co. . P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, California 95050. 
I am enclosing a check . .money order . 
NAME-----------­STREET ---------~-­
CITY------------­
STATE -----------­
ZIP--------­

14 IND/AN VOICE 
To the Indian the word was a sacred thing. Some words were not lightly said. The poem, the chant, the legend of migration, the origin myth were magical utterances in the strictest sense of the term. They tell us what it was to be an American Indian~ traits of stoic bravery, 
awe in the face of nature,. tenderness with children and the old ... 

THE LOST FACE OF 





CORNHUSK 
The fire has dwindled down to glowing embers. In the dim light our figures throw tense shadows on the walls. Deliberately Hageo'tah . seats himself crosslegged on his robe, his half closed eyes upon the glowing coals. . . . He speaks. The smoke is weaving patterns which begin to take form. 
"The wicked Flying Head listened so hard that his ears grew big." 
Cornhush Doll was very sad. 

"Go away from me. No longer do I like you, no-face Doll," naughty Go­woh-weh, her young chum, had said. "Something really bad must you have done to make you afraid to show your Face!" 
But that wasn't Cornhusk Doll's fault, for when Hah-gah-gee fashioned her from a Cornhusk, he had mused, "No began cleaning and arranging 
better order. Soon birch bark lod 
as spotless as freshfallen snow. ge 
Scarcely had she finished 

Hahgahgee came in, a bundle of . Wh n 
h. A . h d \\ OO(j
1s arms. stoms e he gaped . Ill 
little Sister," said he in the term: li1 
f h. 

l l . Inol 
o 1s peop e, a we coming smile • . his face. "So well have you done ti~1 scarcelyi ~now my own home. Nya·h~\:• I What brings you here?" h 
Suddenly shy Cornhusk Doll prodd at the earthen floor with one wee casin, her head hanging low not an _m • 
. ' We~ 
mg. "Ho, my little friend is ba ·hf 1laughed the man. "Come now wh u it? Nothing is there to fear." at 
Still had Hahgahgee looked up at l 
smoke-hole just then, he would not ha 
spoken so, ~or at that very mornem the 
face of a wicked 0-sho-weh-do-jeh \ 
glaring at them. Long shaggy black hau 
had he, which squirmed like livi ·snakes in the wind. Great black wi 
(See Page 1 

DOLL 
book cha pter 

no Soul Light. Our Sky-Sachem so com­mands." 
Not knowing the gentle Doll decided, "To my Maker will I go, where if I am really nice to him, might he not tell me why I have no Face and perhaps give me one?" 
So sadly she left Gowohweh and walked down the trail through the Big Pine Wood to the craftman's lodge beside a hillock. The owner was not in, still he could not be far away, for the smell and crackling of burning Pine welcomed the visitor. 
Because _in those days Ongwehohweh doors were always open to both friends and strangers, the tiny Image entered within the custom and looked around. Tch, how untidy. You see there was no wife to keep his place. 
Face can this Doll have, because she has Poor man. I must help. Cornhusk Doll
IChapter 1 Only -Book Price S6.95 I 
. . running, Larry Little Cloud rw1sung, abit1 number six with un­
froill c · d

u t gerness. The saggmg woo ­mm00 ~:S torn screen floating freely ndoor~th corner edges sl_apped shut 1ong bh' its noise alertmg rodents hi nd . •~he steel garbage bin nearby. up ingnturn carried him toward the Hi _rnorninit stationed a few yards be­nitarY luster of bent, ~ooden tool ind a{he sheds and ca_bins i~terrupted h d · h rows of smallish dned prune rn ?~nd stood in a pond of t~nned r h sernbling a settlement m the
rt re itderness. .
ln hi usual ritual of careless hygiene, year old Larry splashed cold
1
1 e on his face from a porcelain
ater . 
-and watched his breath sweep . 10 hi nostnls· m· the crackd.e , soap-r :ed mirror. His wrinkled T-shirt ~~ ragged le~is permitted the _cold to 
· at his frail body, but excitement 
I d h. .
d anticipation ma e im immune. "..1will get a red one," he said aloud, obbing his head and watching the r flection of his eyes blink mysteriously hen crossing the crack. "I will come ck from the auction riding my new icycle just like the big boys at the hool." He pushed the door open and, 
arms outstretched, closed his hands into a fist as if practicing handlebar maneuvers. 
Larry stopped and began tying the rayed laces of his sneakers just as Jose iranda stepped from his cabin. Rub­ing both eyes with his knuckles, he t down heavily on the wooden pack­mg crate that served as a step. "I'm not oing today," he said quietly. "My Papa says we need the money for other things." He slumped forward dropping hi arms on his thighs and turned red­d~ned eyes toward Larry. "Are you 
till going?" he asked. Reluctantly, Larry nodded. He felt 
_fewdegrees of captured joy seep from hi pounding heart over the sudden emptiness of his friend's news. He noticed his mother's silhouette from he. dimly lit window of the adjacent bin and meticulously pulled the lace 
~o a bow. "They're up now," he said. uess I'll be going pretty soon." You are lucky," J ose said. "You are 
ery lucky." Larry entered the small kitchen and 
atch d h'
fat e . is mother preparing break-iA dim, bared light bulb hung by d~.0th cord from an exposed beam cor mg mystery to the room's unfinished 
ners a d ·· • 
overt n g tvmg her quick motions effect he t~o-bu~ner hot plate an eerie · Using brighter, more powerful 
. 

bulbs was frowned upon by the grower and Mr. Little Cloud respected autho­rity with religious sanctity. Larry heard the hiss of cakes in the iron frying pan and the scent of corn penetrated his immunity. 
Mary entered the room through the drapery that was the bedroom door and yawned. Her sleepy button eyes filled with Larry's image and she remembered. She turned and talked back toward the cloth: "Papa?'' she asked. "Can I go with Larry today?'' 
A wiry man a head taller than Larry pushed the cloth aside and emerged in­to the kitchen. His black, shoulder­length hair was streaked with white and a red head-band partially covered the tops of thick eye brows. Reserva­tion life had hardened and prematurely aged him, yet mysteriously had failed to blacken his spirit. He placed a hand on Mary's head and stroked his nobby, calloused fingers through her long ebony hair. "No, Mary," he said firmly. "Today Larry is to do the work of a man." 
Larry's stomach pressed its walls to­gether, the noise sounding like a muffled croak. His gleaming, puppy­dog eyes widened proudly at his father's remark and he scampered atop the coarse, wooden bench carefully retrieving four plates and forks from a horizontal stud over the table. But it was as if a new understanding of importance gripped him. Certainly he had longed for and even rehearsed the arrival of this day many times yet a thread of fear began pulsing in his spi­nal column. The full significance of his father's words was now becoming 
IND/AN VOICE 15 

burdensome and the weakness of un­
certainty began to fester inside. 
Mama moved toward the head of 

the grey picnic table which was once 
used in the growers yard but now stood 
duty inside the cabin. Massive nails 
secured it to the uneven pine plankings 
of the floor. She held the frying pan 
like ll collection basket in church, her 
thinness being hidden by the long­
pleated, oversize dress donated by Ca­
tholic parishioners. Her eyes had 
become worn and heavy, and the lustre 
that projected from them only a few 
years ago had rapidly subsided to 
cloudiness. The last time she laughed, 
or even smiled, had melted from 
Larry's memory but she was a proud 
woman despite the slowness of her eyes. 
"I see Papa has no trouble getting you 
up today," she said. 
Mary sat next to Larry and Mama placed the big, blackened frying pan across the table in front of Papa, a puff of steam transforming his facial image to that of a mystic. During the blessing, Mary presented her finest example of toothless intimidation hoping for a reprieve in Papa's decision, but to no avail. Larry gulped down his cakes and patiently waited for the others to finish. At last Papa stood up and reached deep into his pocket, the darkness of his arm submerging almost to its elbow. "Here is the money," he said, handing Larry a five dollar bill. 
Larry hesitated. "I think you should know that Jose won't be coming," he said. 
Papa motioned the currency toward Larry. "Perhaps then it is willed that you must do this thing alone. Being a man is sometimes a lonely business." 
"Thank you," Larry said. He took the money, bolted toward the door and stopped at the pail that stood atop an inverted orange crate. Water dribbled from the sides of his mouth in silver rivulets as he gulped it from the tin dipper. "Goodbye Mama, goodbye Mary," he said. 
They answered him in unison and Papa walked out of the cabin placing his arm firmly around the boy's shoul­ders. "Be careful on the road and don't just buy for the sake of buying. Make sure you get the one you want." He gave an affectionate squeeze and watch­ed Larry walk briskly beside the crown of dirt rising from the center of the em­bedded tire tracks that simulated a driveway. 
By the time Larry approached the California Highway Patrol barracks, 
(See Page 26) 


16 IND/AN VOICE 

White Buffalo 

The valley lies gentle in the palm of the mountain, wide and low ... 
placid in the cloud-filtered sun. A mother goes walking down, with her tiny daughter clinging, her small son walking, 
warm and dusty 

and a little bit worn. She looks for strength, and a white buffalo calf comes into her thoughts 
as from a dream 

a far-off dream ... and night comes she gathers her children in to find a sheltered place. The valle 
in the morning they take up the road the country hiding · against one small woman and her children. On the road ba 
to her people she cannot stop . but holds the vision of one whit 
c L-5-tightly in her heart. 


A beautiful Indian woman came mysteriously into the Dakota Nation long ago and brought the people the peace pipe. She told them Wakantanka (Great Spirit) had sent her to instruct them in sacred meanings. As she left the camp, her appearance became that of a white buffalo calf. Whenever a white buffalo was seen in a herd, that herd was spared because it was sacred. 


PAUL WAR CLOUD 
Sioux Artist 
Paul War Cloud is an artist who expresses the deep religious feeling of the Dakota Nation. His art includes portraits of famous Indian leaders and cultural scenes of the Dakota past. His inspiration comes largely from probing into the nuances of the Dakota language as spoken by the old people on the Sisseton Reservation. · 
Mr. War Cloud's oils as well as his ink and pencil sketches . are in a number of private collections here in North America and in Europe. He lives in Sisseton, South Dakota where he is currently working on a mural for the State Capitol in_ Pierre. 
\ ,\'. ' 
:. 



Prints of the White Buffalo are available for framing at the American Indian Cultu·re Center, Marvin, SD 57251. Copies of Mr. War Cloud's Dakota/English Dictionary may be purchased at War Cloud Products, Box 153, Sisseton, SD 57262 Copyright c 1971 by Paul War Cloud. 
i am speaking to you 
i cannot speak to you with my mouth look into my eyes they are speaking courage to you 
look into my eyes they are speaking love to you they are speaking wisdom to you 
they are speaking friendship to you they are speaking beauty to you they are speaking all my thoughts to you 
look into my eyes i am looking into your eyes i hear all your spe~kings. 

-Norman Russell 

18 IND/AN VOICE 

r·' · ······· ········,_· ---------?-Jt::=.·-·-.•:'!'·-tt.:=.i.:f.i.i.::..::.::.:::r::.::.f:+..,.,... · :...~ · ···· ···•• ····•··· .an . ...~·.··.··· ...-·.···*··: .·.<·;.;.-,-·:",·;..· ...'i:::;::: ::.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.-:":"-":i\ :: ·.·.• ·:•. ·• Navajo rug
,:.·-:-::-:-(ttr··.n ¦• nd¦ Crafts .i\...·.·.·•.·.· , ···.·.;.•.·;•: •· ·,•·. t:,:''::•.:.,•.•,,.:=::/·.·--.-:--.·.·.--,·.·.·.·.· ....·.•· · ·.·._·._·.·.·.,:·:•. :.:,.·. came into bein
lIII:tft#ltlil ,:t:~t}t :\:[\:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::: ... ·? ... • ~~ · 
has grown m popularity until 
the old-fashioned red, black 

their varied colors and the fact that they 
gray rugs are becoming rare.' 

were ready for weaving. Saxony, manu­
NAVAJO RUG WEAVING 
Weavers, realizing the

factured in Germany, was soft, silky, 
man~ for their product, bega~Wecl
and vegetable-dyed, but is was finer and_
The Navajo Indians of northern New mentmg anew with plants and
rarer than bayeta, and consequently
Mexico and Arizona are widely known producing some charming,
harder to acquire.

for their superb weaving. that lend themselves well to the
Germantown, made in Pennsylvania,
The Navajo acquired sheep from the designs. At prese~t, although thrn 
was aniline-dyed and far less attractive
early Spanish colonists, as well as the fewer weavers actively engaged •
but was highly popular for about thirty .
horses which enabled them to lead the eraft, an attractively-made
years, although it cost ten times more
life of herdsmen. They learned the fine ways find a buyer.
than native wool, but it was brilliantly
points of weaving from the nearby Pue­Various area~ ~f the reservation
colored and for a long time pleased the
blos, who for many centuries before duce characteristic patterns.
buying public, who at that time assoc­
Columbus had been expert weavers of stance, those from Two Gray Hi
iated Indians with highly colored ar­
native cotton. most famous and most expensive
ticles.

Weaving among the Pueblos was a still follow the Oriental-rug style.
Before long, however, the cheapcraft of the men but Navajos placed the blankets with garish colors were no long­Nos Pos rugs have many small m • new industry in the hands of the women, many colors. The Storm Pattern
er in demand. The weaving industry
who were already skilled in basket­is produced in the western and 00
went into decline. Traders quick to re­
making. They succeeded so well at their parts of the Reservation. Ganado task that by the mid-1700's Navajo blan­
uses a deep red known as Ganado kets not only supplied the needs of the The so-called "yei" designs tribe-but were already becoming an im­produced in the Shiprock portant article of trade. make interesting wall hangings. 
The earliest Navajo blankets were coarsely woven of native hand-spun 
* * * 

wool, the prevailing pattern having a white background with transverse 
PEYOTE STITCH
stripes of color. For color they used the wool from the brown-black sheep com­Peyote Stitch receives its nam mon in every flock. 
the Native American Church (~ Later they found this could be deep­Religion),who had used this stitch to ened to black by a dye of comsumac corate many of its religious objecleaves. This led to experiments in dyeing as feathers, staffs, and fan and with other native plants and minerals, 
handles. . which produced several shades of red, This style of beading is usually do yellowish shades from lemon to orange, round solid objects but can be made 
and two shades of green. hollow form. Typical modern i They also made blue from a clay 
made by using this stitch are boiled with sumac leaves, but shortly 
necklaces, bolo ties, and hat band . found that indigo could be bought in When beading onto a solid lumps from the Spanish traders, and this such as a fan handle, it is neces was far more satisfactory. With the na­alize that-this source of Navajo income the handle to be covered with a tural brown, black, white, and gray was in jeopardy cast about for means to buckskin or cloth. Glue may be (black and white carded together), the revive it. The answer was the floor rug, attach the covering, but for a tigh weavers had a fairly wide range of colors heavier and more closely woven than the and longer use, it is best to sti from which to choose. blanket, colors and patterns that would covering.A great impetus to better craftsman­look well underfoot. 
The old style of beading a nee ship came with the introduction of Buyers of floor rugs demanded some­bolo tie was uaually done on a baize, a finely-spun and woven flannel, thing resembling oriental patterns, with buckskin or cloth. Today this known to the Spanish as bayeta. It was many small motifs filling the space close­done hollow by using a braid_ed procured through trade with the Pue­ly. They also wanted attractive colors, in­cord, which can be purchased m blos or by raiding among the settle­stead of the blatant purples and greens. any sporting goods or hardware t ments, and later it was stocked at the Another factor in the changeover It is necessary for the first ~ trading posts. Bayeta had a deep red from blankets to rugs was the introduc­beads to hav€ a one-bead spa color and was prized by the Navajos. tion of commercially-manufactured tween each bead in order that ~ They raveled the material and spun their biankets. The Navajos were quick to row can fit in. This does not e 
own wool as finely as possible to match adopt this style for their own use and the possibility of having extra 
it. Bayeta was rare and highly prized, weaving became almost entirely a sal­the first row. If this is the case, the and the rugs woven with it are true col­able craft. beads can carefully be broken ° lectors' items. About 1920, certain influential per­pliers. Thread cutting can be P 
By the l 880's commercially prepared sons who were interested in Navajo by squeezing the very edge of the and dyed yarns became accessible to the weaving began to urge the revival of weavers, and were popular because of vegetal dyes. With this a new style of 



" ... NO BROTHERHOOD AMONG UNEQUALS" 
t 
A Speech by Gerald Wilderson, National Indian Youth Council, at the N CAI Convention 


lete text to a speech delivered o~P Wilkerson at the 28th Annual 
~ G~r~onvention, November 16, 1971) · hairrnan, fellow delegates, fellow 
fr. 
Indian · 
honored to have been asked to 1a;this panel representing the 7,000 0 b r and 43 chapters of the Na­
m e ·1

nal Indian Youth Counc1 . 1 Thi i a change from tw~ years ago at 
h lbuquerque Convention where. a 
h man ordered NIYC to re~ove its ch and where NIYC ·had to fight_for minute on the youth panel. It 1s a
1
h nge from an earlier time when effec­a JYC leaders like Mel Thom and
J\ . 
,de Warrior were ~landered as com­~ni t by cert~in officials of this organi­ti n. But I am not here to slander the c. I. I am not here to go over the past. t mhere and all our actions are direct-

towards strengthening NCAI to be­me an effective voice for Indian peo­
1an people are not at this conven­t n. nd I do not mean Nixon. or Ag­"· or Morton. 
•\t 
lbuquerque several hundred ac­, . 'IYC members showed up. Today h r are only a handful. They say, "Our nbal chairman is boycotting the conven­10n", they say , "We were invited before nd then treated like foreigners". It will 

man years before many come back, th r may never come back. 
The e were your relatives and mine. _I n · of these were your children. 

• 
I perhaps lost a whole generation 1 · lbuquerque. Here today NCAI is in h proc~ of throwing away another. 


~ 1ore 1~portant, ~nother group is not e at th1 convention. I'm speaking of poor people the people in need, the opt because of whose condition we 
high · 

paymg anti-poverty jobs. ThesefP1e are not here but many of their le­repre entatives, the tribal chairmen 
here o ' 

b · ur poor relatives and our torh ro_thers are not here because as 
t ere I h'

The not mg here for them. 
· cannot afford to pay 20 bucks to r '~· ~hough the problems discussed nc ;~J: t as vital to an Indian with 20 v a 1 pocket from panhandling as · e;e / 0 an Indian with $20,000 in his 11.· not rt~m OEO. NS:AI has histori­ntion eated them nght. At this con­ht. CAI has not treated them 
I was shocked to learn that these elder Indian leaders who sang here yesterday could not get into this hall until it was time for them to sing. They had to stay down in the basement until it was time to perform. 
Now you say that all those who can't afford the $20.00 registration can sit up in the balcony and watch. 
When I was growing up in the South, when me and my cousins went to a mo­vie we had to sit in what the white peo­ple called the "colored balcony". This was true of all Indians there. It was known as the "nigger section". Now I am shocked to learn that we Indians have our own "nigger section". It's re­served for the poor, thi traditional, the young, and the urban. 
NIYC is more than angry at this situa­tion we are ashamed. 
So the hundreds of NIYC members you had in Albuquerque are not here in Reno, but they have asked me and a handful of others to come to this conven­tion and express these ideas to you. 
Let us not incriminate each other; let us not accuse each other, but let us look at our faults and get them out on the ta­ble.· 
(1) 
We don't respect each other enough. NIYC is currently investigating scores of incidents where Indian stu­dents have been driven off the road by white people and beat up simply because they had an Indian Power bumper stick­er on their car. The response from our leaders: "They probably antagonized these white kids, you know how this younger Indian generation is". 

(2) 
We don't respect the Indian mon­ey. Why couldn't this convention be held on a reservation where the money spent could go into the tribal economy instead of the pockets of Howard Hughes? We know the financial situation of ~CAI. NIYC members who attended NCAI meetings in their areas were shocked at what went on. NCAI officials seemed to have a great deal of money. They were always willing to buy us drinks. But with all that money whey couldn't buy Indian people justice. It's NIYC policy that any­one who works for it from a secretary to an executive director must all make the same and cannot make over $100 a week. What NIYC has been able to do on one tenth of the money of NCAI speaks for itself. 


(3) We don't respect each others views of life. Established tribal leaders do not get along with established urban leaders, and visa-versa. When and Indian from Chicago is beat up by the police in Albu­querque, the response from many tribal leaders is "Oh, he's just another urban Indian". When an Indian from Arizona gets beat up in a large northern city, the response from the Indian Center official is "Oh, he's just a Navajo". If AIM (American Indian Movement) which is predominately urban and NIYC which is predominately rural and reservation can co-operate on a variety of issues throughout the country, why cannot our elected tribal and urban leaders get along? In this regard what we are witnessing at this convention is an outrage. 
We do not respect anything or anyone. 
But I have not come here to tear down 
NCAI or to antagonize anyone or to set 
anyone or any group against each other. 
NCAI has something to give to Indian 
people and it must be straightened out 
so it can serve. We appreciate the frustra­
tions of thos leaders in this organization 
who have worked hard to try to make it 
serve. 

Let's be honest. How does anyone ask NCAI to do anything? We could at the very least count on NCAI to occasion­ally provide a letter or a resolution in support of issues. Now that the White House and Interior no longer listen to NCAI, of what good are even these things? 
What did NCAI do for Black Mesa? What did NCAI do for Discrimina­tion in the BIA? 
I won't answer these questions. You must do that for yourself. Commissioner Bruce told us recently that this year In­dians lost 56,000 acres of land -56,000 acres of our soul. NIYC doesn't see any­one crying over this. We want to see some tears. And we want to see some ac­tion. Any Indian organization which is not giving an all out fight to protect our land and our water is expendable. 
People ask where are the hundreds of NIYC members that were in AJbuquer­que? Some have even suggested that NIYC become NCAI's youth Organi­zation. I don't know about you but I am particular about the horses I ride. And we have too much pride, as warriors, to ride a sick horse into battle. 
(See Page 28) 
THE CHARACTER OFTHE AMERICAN INDIAN 
It is to be regretted that the character ofthe Indian as described in Cooper's in­teresting novels is not the true one. But as in emerging from childhood into the years of a maturer age we are often com­pelled to cast aside many of our earlier il­lusions and replace them by beliefs less inviting but more real, so we, as a peo­ple, with opportunities enlarged and fa­cilities for obtaining knowledge in­creased, have been forced by a multiplici­ty of causes to study and endeavor to comprehend thoroughly the character of the red man. So intim'ately has he be­come associated with the Government as a ward of the nation, and so prominent a place among the questions of national poli~y does the much mooted Indian question occupy, that is behooves us no longer to study this problem from works of fiction, but to deal with it as it exists in reality. 
Stripped . of the beautiful romance with which we have been so long willing to envelop him, transferred from the in­viting pages of the novelist to the locali­ties where we are compelled to meet with him, in his native village, on the war path and when raiding upon our frontier settlements and lines of travel, the Indian forfeits his claim to the appella­tion of the noble red man. We see him as he is, and, so far as all knowledge goes, as he ever has been, a savage in every sense of the word,· not worse, perhaps, than his white brother would be, similar­ly born and bred, but one who cruel and 
ferocious nature far exceeds that of any wild beast of the desert. 
That this is true no one who has been brought into intimate contact with the wild tribes will deny. Perhaps there are some who as members of peace commis­sions or as wandering agents of some benevolent society may have visited these tribes or attended with them at councils held for some pacific purpose, and who, by passing through the villages of the Indian while at peace, may imagine their opportunities for judging of the Indian nature all that could be desired. But the Indian, while he can sel­
<lorn be accused of indulging in a great variety of wardrobe, can be said to have a character capable of adapting itself to almost every occasion. He has one character, perhaps his most serviceable one, which he preserves carefully, and only airs it when making his appeal to the Government or its agents for arms, ammunition,and license to employ them. This character is invariably parad­ed, and often with telling effect, when the motive is a peaceful one. Prominent chiefs invited to visit Washington invar­iably don this character, and in their talks with the Great Father and other less prominent personages they success­fully contrive to exhibit but this one phase. Seeing them under these or simi­lar circumstances only, it i(/ not surpris­
ing that by many the India . upon as a simple-mi·nded n •s I 
. . h" son of
desirmg not mg beyond th 
· d h · e PriviI
roammg an untmg over th settled wilds ofthe West inh e.~ast 
· b f ' entin•
assertmg ut . ew native rights e never trespassmg upon the . ' others. nght 
This view is equally erron that which regards the lhdian eous 
. as a 

ture possessmg the human for b yested of all othe~ attributes 0~ hut ity, and wh~se tra_its of character, ha . modes of hfe, disposition and customs di,squalify him fr~m th sa cise of all_ ~ights ~nd privilege: e those p~rtami_ng to hfe itself. Taki~g . as we fmd him, at peace or at w home o_r abr?ad, waiving all prej ai: and laymg. aside all partiality, we will . cover in the Indian a subject for tho 
· fu_l st1:1dy and investigation. In him will fmd the representative of a whose origin is, and promises to subje~t forever wrapped in myste race mcapable of bemg judged b rules or laws applicable to any 0 known race of men; one between and civilization there seems to h existed from time immemorial determined and unceasing warfare_ hostility so deep-seated and inbred · the Indian character that in th ceptional instances where the mod habits of civilization have been relu ly adopted, it has been at the sacrifi power and influence as a tribe, and more serious loss of health, vigor courage as individuals. 

ti•, , ar · ' d ri"bed another instance in
• J. esc 
_im he trustee failed to protect ht~h t aves which were under land ·a imad grassed into the public domain. 
tha1 ha pnment conveyed the land to 
gover .

Th
e arties and the Yakimas were rovadte ppay $53,000 to buy their graves
force to 
· . man Mervyn Wright of the Pyra-

Chatr · f ·1 
. L k Paiute Tnbe told of the ai ure
1d a e · f h 
Stice Department to en orce t e 

,·theJu . h
• Water Ditch Decree, whic regu­
~r the amount of water the Bureau of tion can take out of the
I ma 

Rec a 1 
kee River for the Newlands Rec a-

True . h . t 
· n ProJ· ect whic it opera es.
mauo , . lthough the level of Pyramid Lake ~ias dropped 80 feet, and al_though there is a at waste of water m the Newlands 
re f J .
Project, the Depart~ent ~ ustice re-u to bring the action which would en­force the decree, although it has said for ,ear that such action is "under consi­dration." The Tribe has filed suit 
ain t both the Secretary of the Inter­ior and the Department of Justice. 
The lake could be saved by adminis­trative action of the Interior Depart­ment, but the Department ha~ refused to 
e uch ,action. Instead, NARF attor­nev John Echohawk cited a recent news 
rticle reporting that "Pyramid Lake Paiute Indian representatives were ou ted ... from a U.S. Interior Depart­ment criteria committee meeting. The ommittee sets standards for the Truc­e and Carson River water operations. t the ame time the Indians were des­rib d by a Department official as the 
oppo ition' ... " Rupert Costa, President of the Ameri­n lndian Historical Society, described 
.hat he called the beginning of a mas­1'~ campaign by that organization for h ~rotection of Indian water rights. He, hke many other witnesses stressed
h . ' 
tmp_ortance of the preparation of ate~ nghts inventories to protect nadJudicated Indian Winters Doctrine 
l ht . 
The Albuquerque office of the BIA refused to cooperate with this effort 
co ct· ' 
r mg to Costa. He described 

veral in t f . 
1 s ances o small Reservat10ns 
h .outhern California being deprived of tr ~ater rights by diversion or the 
u;pi~g out of their water" supplies. Hu~nlla Apache Tribal Chairman he rt Velarde described the effects of on th:~-Ju~n-Chama diversion project 
icanlla Reservation. The project is designed to bring water from the Up­per Colorado River Basin, through a ser­ies of tunnels under the Continental Di­

vide into the Rio Grande River Basin. The water is diverted from three rivers, including the Navajo River which runs through the Jicarilla Reservation. The rate of flow in the river has been de­creased from 500 cubic feet per second to 55 cubic feet per second, destroying the Tribal fishery. 
According to Velarde, the Colorado State Fish and Game Department says that they no longer stock the stream be­cause of the high temperatures resulting from the diversion, but the Bureau of Reclamation continues to proclaim that "the fish habitat will not be adversely af­fected." · 
The Chairman of the Colorado River Tribal Council described the menace to · Indian Tribes provided by the Bureau of Reclamation's Central Arizona Project. CAP precludes future Reservation development because it takes needed wa­ter from the already over-appropriated Colorado River, he said. His Tribe is downstream from the proposed point of diversion of the riveL They anticipate that condemnation procedures will be in­stituted to supply water to the cities of Phoenix and Tucson. Already, the Tribe is threatened by pollution which increas­es the salinity of the water. 


Judicial decrees have declared some Indian right, but these are not enforced by the Department of Justice. Thus, the State of California is using 700 thousand · to 800 thousand acre feet of water per year more than its legal limit of Colo­rado River water. 
As usual, the technique has been to de­clare that Indian rights are not affected. Thus, Wesley Steiner, Director of the Arizona Water Commission, has made verbal assurances that water will be available to meet the full decreed rights of the Indians. 
Mrs. Frances Stillman, Chairman of the Fort Mojave Tribal Council, provid­ed still another example in the seemingly endless parade: Her Reservation strad­dles the Colorado River in three States. The Bureau of Reclamation came in and channeled the river, without consulting the Tribe. Subsequently, a BIA Realty Office official appeared with "a paper for us to sign saying that we were agree­ing to have the river channeled that ran 
IND/AN VOICE 21 

through our Reservation," Mrs. Still­
man testified. We were given the impres­
sion that this channeling of the river 
wo~ld control the ~iver, and, therefore, 
prevent any more floods from happen­
ing, that our land values· would rise ..." 
The net effect was that the channeling 
caused accretions along the river front. 
The Bureau of Reclcimation tnen took 
600 feet on each side of the river, screen­
ing the Tribe out from the riv~r front._ 
Then, others came in and made claims 
to the accreted land, accreted to Tribal 
sections, but the Tribe had no way of 
fighting this. 
In the words of Mrs. Stillman, "We had our old people come out and wit­ness that this was our land. We didn't know any other people coming into the land, but we just couldn't get any deci­sion in our favor. The Attorney General from the United States came to inter­vene for us but in the face of all this con­flict of interest it ended that he argued against us instead, and so the case was dropped. It sounds unbelievable, but this is the truth." 
Fritz Brown, Chairman of the Que­chan Tribe, told of an 1893 incident in which a land promotional organization, acting through the Commissioner of In­dian Affairs, developed plans to use both the lands and the waters of the Fort Yuma Indians, which those Indians had occupied from time immemorial. 
"Those agents of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs practiced fraud, duress, coercion, brutality upon our Fort Yuma Indians to seize our land. Acting with the Justice Department, the Commis­sioner's agents jailed Indian leaders who 
opposed the .Commissioner's plans and kept them in jail without charge and the Indian leader died from the beating given by the direction of the Indian Officials. At last, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs obtained what is known as the 1893 Agreement . . ." Brown 
.reported. 
· Recent efforts to reopen the case have been blocked by Bureau of Indian Af­fairs officials refusing to provide funds and the required experts to develop the case. Thus was the West won. 
Veronica Murdock, appearing for the. Confederation of Indians on the Colo­rado River, called for a water study task force on behalf of Indians, "a study that will not be ignored." 
From California, Larry Olinger, Chairman of the Agua Caliente Council, gave more evidence of the effectiveness 
of the Justice Department in protecting .Indians. In 1961. the State of California applied a "Possessory Interest Tax" on 
(Over) 


22 IND/AN VOICE 
leases of Indian Tribal lands, irt what O­_linger called a "back door approach" to impose State taxation on tax-exempt In­dian lands. In 1965, the Regional Solici­tor (Interior Department) urged the trustee (Justice Department) to file a lawsuit to stop imposition of the Posses­sory Interest Tax in the case of Indian 
trust lands. 
Neither the Department of the Inter­

ior nor the Justice Department acted on 
the request. Finally, the Tribe fUed suit 
on its own behalf, and lost, appealed, 
and lost by a split decision. Now, they 
are petitioning the United States Su­
preme Court for a Writ of Ceritiorari to 
consider the case. 
The Interior Department ".strongly 

urged" the Department of Justice to fiJe 
an amicus brief in support of the certio-· 
.rari petition, but Justice took no action. 
Finally Rep. James Haley (D-Fla), filed 

an amicus brief on behalf of the Tribe, 
and the Supreme Court then "issued an 
Order to the Solicitor General to pro­
vide them with a statement of the trus­
tee's position." Presumably this · will 
prompt the Justice Department to exer­
cise their responsibilities to their Indian 
beneficiaries, but it is still too early to 
tell. 

Frank Tenorio, Chairman of the Wa­
ter Committee of the All-Indian Pueblo 
Council, testified that the Justice De­
partment continue& to tell the Pueblos 

that developments such as the San Juan­
Chalma project will not effect the tribes 
in any way. Yet, the project diverts tribu­
taries upstream from the Pueblos. 

Benny Atencio reported that Veeder 
was loaned to the Pueblos as a "water 
rights expert", not as a counsel, and on 
that ground the Department of the Inter­
ior objected when Veeder assisted in the 
preparation of a Pueblo water rights 
case. 

"The Bureau of Reclamation is the 
greatest single enemy of the American 
Indian today ... functioning for the real 
estate interests in the cities of Phoenix, 
Tucson, Denver, Los Angeles ... they 
have departed almost entirely from the 
original reason for their creation, name­
ly, the reclamation of agricultural land." 

Senator Kennedy concluded; angrily: 
"I do not care who is responsible. There 
has been too much dilly-dallying. There 
has been too much red tape. There has 
been too much flim-flam, shell game, in 
terms of the pursuit of Indian interests, 
and this Committee is going to do what 
it can to stop it and stop it now." 
(Reprintedfrom 1.:.LIDS) 






)-4IC 


CHIPPEWAS FIGHT FOR THEIR LAND AND WATER 
(From Page 7) 

dam hadn't been seized. Last year some members of AIM (American Indian Movement), one of the most militant Indian organizations in the country, were invited by the tribal council to get involved in the effort to try to recapture the Chippewa Flowage. 
The Flowage, which is managed by the Northern States Power Company, was created by building a dam on the Chippewa River and diverting the water to the lowlying lands. This dam is what the members of AJM and their supporters occupied earlier this summer. The occupation got rave reviews, of course, and the attention of the governor and the senator. 
The real crunch will come, of course, when the hearing before the Federal Power Commission is held some time in the future. The contract of Northern States has expired (in August), but the company has been given a temporary permit to continue to operate. 
The Federal Power Commission is, of 
course, pro power, and has been known 
to grant licenses to the most irrespon­
sible power companies. So the battle is 
not won by having gotten attention. The 
tribal council of the Lac Court Oreilles 
and the members of AIM who are backing them have their work for them -defeating a power~t before a Power Commission. 
They need all the help they c The consent of the tribal membean impossible to get when the projers initiated, and will probably t . possible to get now. But the gove~ 1 has ways to bend the laws to get What wants. 
The power to grant the ori • Chippewa Flowage project was giv:• Congress. in 1916, subject to the co n of the tribe and of individual In • land owners, and subject to the pa of proper compensation. 
The Wisconsin-Minnesota Light Power Company. (the predecessor Northern States) found this per · · of the tribe and its individual mem impossible to get. Opposition to it unanimous. They rejected offer of $20,000.00 for 310 acres, and they jected offers of accepting similar elsewhere. 
Then the Federal Power Act enacted by Congress in 1920. This gave the Federal Power Commissi which was new at the time, the power issue licenses to power companies of to 50 years duration, and the right issue such licenses on Indian Ian without the consent of the Indians. meant that it was the wishes of Federal Power Commission, and not wishes of Indians·, which would honored. 
The license to Wisconsin-Minn 

Light and Power -was one of the fl 
granted by the Commission. 
company proceeded to acquire 6 

acres of Indian land from individ 
owners, and when the actual floodial 
accurred, 525 acres of tribal land 
also flooded, rather than the 315 
allowed in the license. 
As is the usual outcome, Indians 
the loser in this fight. Their lands 

flooded, they were not paid for the •. 
of them, and they did not. ~eccl 
benefits of the power. In add1t!on 

power company rented resort s1tees 
private individuals, making money 
these rentals. In just about every 
possible the Lac Court Oreilles 
held to the fire and roasted. 

Now they are standing on the
ir 0 
feet again, fighting to regain the use 
their tribal lands. It will be a long _fi • 
asking the Federal Power Comrn . 
to deny a license is like asking a rapist 
guard your sister. 


This present system is what the Ad
NEW INDIAN POLITICS ••••• Hoc Committee has pledged itself to 
try to eradicate. Their proposals include 
(1) building an Indian land base of 105 millions acres by July 4, 1976, up from 
k Adams, executive ~irector of Han . 1of American Indians Asso­
urv1va I d'

th . the traditional n ian group i ~•~\ a been the backbone of the h•~ rights movement in the state of fi h!O~ gt n has announced the forma­
, h1n o , · _ of an Ad Hoc C~~mtee/o opf l1 00 e the present poht1cf;. sybs emh_o 
. 1 tion of Indian a 1airs y w 1te
n1pu a litician · •
The prime target of the campaign, id will be Senator Henry M.
dam a, 

oop) Jackson, the Democrat senator ( the State of Washington. The 
rom · k · 

ommittee will conce_ntrate_ its Fwor _dm h primaries of W1sconsm, 1on a,1nd ew Hampshire, Adams added. 
The reason for the group's opposition 
that "senator Jackson ha_s _been a mpion of the power pohtlcs and cial interests which have been most 
rmful to American Indians·." 

central purpose of our campaign," dam aid, "is to remove the human oncern and needs of Indian people from the operational'political processes of the nation and states, which have ( iled to give conscientious regard (to) or to erve these concerns and needs. The campaign shall emphasize an In­dian right to remain isolated from the political mainstreams and structures of merica and the national obligation 
to refrain from destroying us ... by llowing political power processes to rey upon our powerlessness." 
The Ad Hoc Committee has been formed at a time when there is an in­a ing call for removing Indian affairs rom the place it now has in the Con­of the United States. Since the Bur au of Indian Affairs is in the De­Brtment of ~he Interior, along with the 
ureau of Mmes, the Bureau of Fisher­
.the Bureau ofParks and Recreation nd 0ther uch bureaus many of which h ~t Indian land and resources for 
eir own uses, Indians get the shortnd of the deal most of the time. The re · 
. ason 1s that the legal repre­
ntatt e of Interior, including the Bu­u of Indian Affairs is the Solicitor 
neral' f ' 
O fice of the Department.
th
p ren ere is a conflict of interest­
people want Indian land for a park, or big mining interests 
mine 1 · 
f ra nghts on Indian land-the° the Solicitor General is the representative of both sides in the 

matter. And since the powerful inter­ests in the U. S., such as farmers, miners, loggers, resort operators, and so on, keep their lobbyists in Washing­ton to look after their interests, they frequently win out. Indian people simply do not have the money to keep 
medicine woman 
she knows which herb to use to bring forth the child quietly to make the mother stand and carry her child away 
she knows which herbs to use to make the leather soft to make the eyes see clearly to give the man his strength 
she knows which herbs to use to calm the fever of the child to make the paints for dancing to make love come to maidens 
she does not know which herbs to use to make her life go on the young girls go with her to learn her secrets now. 
spring summer autumn winter 
there are only four seasons spring summer autumn winter that is all there are only four ways and winds north east south west that is all there are only two peoples friends enemies that is all 
this is what henry bluenose says he sells rings and blankets 
when does the spring end? when does the summer begin? what lies between north and west ? how does one know his enemy? 
i will go to henry bluenose he will tell me. 
-Norman Russell 

a representative in Washington all the time, and frequently find it difficult to raise enough money to send a repre­sentative to the capital in emergency situations, such as a tribe's threatened loss of water rights. 
In this way the Indian frequently loses resources without knowing about the action until it has already taken place. Indian affairs seems to be design­ed to erode and take away all Indian resources. 
the present base of 50 million, (2) a referendum of all Indians in the nation as to whether the Bureau of Indian Affairs should be abolished, (3) a commitment for $1 billion a year for 25 years to rebuild the economic bases of Indian reservations, (4) a commit­ment of not less than 15% of that a­mount to go to helping urban Indians, who are in many cases worse off than reservation Indians, (5) repeal of stat­utes instituting state jurisdiction over Indian reservations, and 10 more points. 
These proposals are sure to generate a lot of heat and discussion, if they are pushed by the committee. According to Adams, the group will be laying the groundwork for their campaigning in the 1972 primaries, and they will an­nounce their members and support sometimes "after mid-January 1972." 
Their method of operation will be to work against Jackson in the New Hampshire, Wisconsin, and Florida primaries, and at the same time to educate the non-Indian public to the realities of present Indian life under the old style politics of Jackson and those others in powerful positions." It is the Jacksons;' Adams said,"who are largely responsible for the conditions Indians find themselves in today." " The tactics:' he said, "shall not be a campaign of organized protests. or of disruptions of candidates' appearances. Rather, independent forums and speak­ing engagements and campaign rallies will be scheduled throughout the selected states. Much of the,supportwill come from non-Indians, who are al­ready scheduling appearances for Indian speakers before groups which have expressed their concern for the Indian's situation and support for In­dian aspirations." 
This type of movement one could almost predict from growing interest of Indian young people, in the cities and on the reservations, in the retaining of their Indian heritage, and their growing involvement in political affairs dealing with Indians. One would think that more and more of this type of action will be happening in the future; the number of Indians who have be­come "politicized" is higher now than it ever was, and the number is growing every day. 




24 IND/AN VOICE 
THE LUMBEE STORY 

Mobility and trading with whites were possible because of the Indian trails through Lumbee country. Oxendine mentions the Lowrie trail (pp.12 -13), which crossed the central part of Lum­bee country. This trail linked to the trad­ing path from Virginia to western South Carolina at its western end, and crossed Swanton's "Wilmington, High Point, and Northern" trail near the heart of Lumbee country; it ran from northeast to southwest. There was also the Cher­aws.:.Winyah Bay Trail, originating 30 miles west of Pembroke near the colon­ial site of the Cheraw, Eno, and Keyau­wee tribes and running southeast to the South Carolina coast. 
The Lumbee settlement was possible because of the relative ease of getting there, and the further ease of disappear­ing once there. Robeson County is cut into natural sections by five swamps, which divide field from field and com­munity from community. Until drainage projects were instituted in the mid­nineteenth century, fields were located only on the high ground. The areas in be­tween were bogs, marshes, swamps, or ponds. Many of these exist today. The area is very flat, and averages an eleva­tion of 100 feet above sea level, and is 100 miles from the coast. 
The inaccessibility of large sections was demonstrated by the outlaw gang (to the whites) or guerilla fighters (o the Indians) of the Henry Berry Lowrey group, which held out for 10 years in the swamps, from 1864 to 1874. Taking ad­vantage of the peculiarities of the ter­rain, as well as the sympathy of the Lum­bee, and "because they have come to realize that long ago retreat ceased to be a practical possibility" ... (Evans, p. 25), this guerilla band of Lumbees, Negroes, and white sympathizers took revenge on, and robbed, the local white power barons almost at will. (See Evans for a full account of the band.) The success of the Lowery gang points out the desirabil­ity of the area to Indian peoples (and others) on the borders of English settle­ments in colonial times. 
Why would the Indians run away from the English? The scenario, with nu­merous variations, ran as follows: There were explorations by Spanish or English in an area, which many times took In­dian slaves. Following the exploration, settlements were started, many of which depended on Indian and Negro slave iabor. Once the colony was strong enough it tested its strength in warfare with ·the local Indians (provided disease had not already weakened them suffici­ently) almost always over questions of land or trading rights. The English won (the Spanish lost out early in the Caro­linas),_ and sold the Indians into slavery, forced them to move further into the in­terior, or put them onto reservations. None of the three alternatives proved to be desirable to the Indians, and escape to a relatively inaccessible region proved to be more desirable to many. 
The Tuscarora in 1710 sought refuge in Pennsylvania to escape the slavers; they were denied refuge, and in 1712 some 400 of their members were sold in­to slavery in South Carolina (Rights, pp. 46, 56-57). The mention of slavery was enough to strike terror into the hearts of South Carolina natives (Crane, p.17 ff),. and was doubtless enough to drive many' natives into seclusion, so to speak. 
The reservations which were estab­lished in colonial times were all settled by whites in time. (Only one of these has been preserved from colonial times ­the Catawba reservation in South Caro­lina.) As these reservations were reclassi­fied as public domain and opened for white settlers, the Indian occupants were forced to move on. Many of these doubt­lessly migrated to the Robeson swamps. 
In conclusion, any theory which at­tempts to peg Lumbee origin to any group of Indians (an intermarriage with whites) is open to suspicions as far as ex­plaining all the possible origins of the present-day tribe. There is not yet any document, or series of documents, which can explain the partial origins of more than one family name. (The Low­ery clan is well-known; see Evans, Rights, Barton. This writer has traced the white origins of his family to 1790; the Indian origins are blank.) The "Lost Colony", and the Cherokee theory, as well as several other less popular ones, can be regarded as no better than cir­cumstantial evidence. I have tried to point out that a more eclectic approach to the question of Lumbee origin is more amenable to a consideration of the geo­graphy of the region, the modes of trans­portation of colonial times, and the so­cial conditions prevalent from colonial times to the present. 
--DEAN CHAV~S (cont'd Next mo!}th) 


(From Page 14) 

beat at his sides, and his powerful t l grasped the edge of the smoke-h a~ When this creature alighted upon ° the. ground, taller stood he than the tall Moose, yet when he darted off over ~t tree tops, he shrank to the size of a Wo~re head. Often was O-sho-weh-do-J·eh 
. d . 1·1 seen 
racmgh_an swooping ~,<e mad before an onrus mg tempest, his screeches • 
l. . h h f min. 
g mg wit t_ e roar o the storm. Evil was he, and evil creatures never liked good one~. So hard, _therefore, did the wicked F_lymg Head listen, that his ears gre big. · 
He heard the tiny figure mourn abo 
. h "Pl " ut h b
"e~ ams ment. ease, she begged give me a Face, a pretty one, if you will so that Go-woh-weh will like me agai ' Do this and joy will fill my heart. " n. 
Hahgahgee however , said, "That cannot be," and paused to shake hi ~ead. "~eat ~ourself before the hearth fire, while I light my pipe. Then will I relate to you why the O-no-nyah Ga­yah-dahs have no Faces." 
Seating himself near his listener and taking several long thoughtful puffs at hi tobacco, the wise man began, " Long lon ago after Maker-of-All-Things hav created the Ireokwa, he placed upon Earth-Mother Plants and Animal for their use. Among these plants ~ ere three kindly sisters, Corn, Bean, and qua h known as O-nes-tah or Sustainer -of­Life. One day gracious Corn Spirit, look­ing up the heavens, asked if there wa still more she could do for the Indian. Pleased by her request Maker-of-All­Things gave to certain Human Being the skill to make a Doll People from her husks. 
Only a-a-ah, among the Lrst made wa one beautiful Cornhusk Doll, lovely and graceful as a dew-laden fern painted b\ Sun's morning . lustre. People tra\'eled many arrow flights simply to gape at her. That Cornhusk Doll became vain. ·. ·o one is as beautiful as I,' would she boa , and long and admiringly gazed at her re­flection in Sacred Pool's still waters." 
"The Sacred Pool! " interrupted Faceless One. "Sure!y not that ecret place in the heart of Dark Forest?'' 
me assented the 
5a
the ' · · l
tapping his turt e-
I . 
rave )' . d "I 

rr tPI"-. e Then he continue , . n Itel P1P · Maker-of-All-Things
rptea ure . l . 

1 <1 this idle vain-g onous 0~111 upon d that other Cornhusk 
~ JI feare
II c the Ong-weh-oh-weh or I , ,1n~ e en might imitate this foolish hddren d"d
1 t Id come envy, i content, 
I h n \\'OU . . d 

c bl 'ky-Sachern decide to 
I irou e. f H' 
i . vii before it spread too ~r. is 1h1 f e he imparted to his Owl
there or . h

he · r who obediently left his perc I ri:~ 'Great Celestial_ T~ee th_a\ 1 h 'ky-Ceiling, and flying down-he t :through the Cloud-Sea finally
Jace b S d
n pruce Tree a ove acre : 

I1 hte' d upo f d h
There the Messenger oun t . e P 1· effigv kneeling as usual before
nd orne , . 
. r like pool arranging rnany­

1 1rnrro .1k h .
\ er in her glossy si y air.
I no

J rr< h
,tb orbed was she even to see er

1 
!lllr. 
('hen Gwa-oh fixed his bal~ful . uaze on that arrogant conceited 
1 
ft ·u::'and colded, 'Yo~ see ~n me a Bird muth wi dom, therefore, listen closely. \ u \\ ere intended by Make~-of-A:ll­Hll!; to pread joy, ~ornp~monsh~p, nd friendliness among his Children, m­e!. b , your vanity, you have aroused fl\\ and di tress in their hearts. This u I t p else sorrow will spread nu ,hout lreokwa Lodges.' The bird r td hi feathers as he pronounced the r cl d ision. 'Look hard into the ired Pool, vain one. Vain people are ill . ·oulle creatures should have I· ,H . In punishment your Soul Light u I c me .with me to the Happy Horne r.1bm loud-Sea. Your beautiful Face 
I ow wipe away! ' . ·o No' begged the terrified Doll. She rlt'd to nee, only the Owl's eyes flashed, m pear of light momentarily pinning r to the ground. A _miniature Spruce 
·ct emerged from beneath one wing (,\\' h balancing on one foot slowly ul open the top with his free talon. 
Hu he pleaded in vain, for as she 7 d _in open-mouthed dismay, a plain­
1 trill a of a bird on a last winging het.1rd and a round pale-blue light d fr?m her parted lips and floated 
. th pruce Casket. There, before her 1 n, _her pretty Face faded away. It 
•1 tf a blanket had been cast over the ·tlin waters. 
,\,_aoh lid the cover closed before 1 ·in the weeping Doll, 'Henceforth 0th 
. r may not be hurt by your 1 • you and your Cornhusk Doll kind u roam Earth-Mother without Faces 

l vh ' 
you may still see and hear as 

b 
e \' 
1 h th ou ~~y also continue to speak e P•nts and our Brothers of 
Woods and Fields and Streams. But with the lreokwa, same for certain chosen ones, you may talk only through Dreams. It has pleased our Sky-Sachem to make differences among people, only it is wrong for one person to hold himself above another. Remember this wisdom; I am as good as you are but no better; you are as good as I am but no better. Go now, foolish one, and perform the task which is your right and should be your joy. Go and make Earth-Mother's Children happy.' 
"With these words the Owl Messenger turned and with great lifting strokes flapped his way back to the_ Great Celestial Tree that brushes the Sky­Ceiling, leaving the Doll, now Faceless, sitting alone. Since that time no Corn:­hust Doll has ever had a Face. And that 
i.s why you, little Sister, have none,': ron­cluded Hahgahgee, knocking the ashes from his turtle-headed pipe. 

Silent for some time after this story did our Cornhusk Doll and her maker sit be­fore the fire. "My Ancestor did wrong," she finally admitted, "yet if Gowohweh is unhappy, because I have no Face, might there not be other children who feel the same .way? Surely our punish­ment for the fault of another has been so severe, we would never again stoop to such folly. Perhaps if I spoke with Maker-of-All-Things, He would relent. Where is He? H ow can I reach HiP-1 ?" 
Hahgahgee replied, " Let someone wiser than I answer your question. Go to the flats where Onestah rustles by Purling River. There, if you are patient, you may get your answer." "Do I have your permission to seek my Soul Light, Uncle?" 
Some time the man pondered before answering. Then he explained, "Once, as I sat beneath the White Pine listening for the Voices for the Ancients in the Winds, Maker-of-All-Thing's wisdom bade me make a Cornhusk Doll more better than any other. So from the husks of the Sacred Red Ear I gathered your Being. I fashioned you during that time of growth with the glow of the east-rising Sun in your Face. I completed you before the dew dried on the grass blades. Maker-:of-All-Things put the breath of mortal life into you. You were his chosen Cornhusk Doll, fit gift for the daughter of a Sachem Woman. At the Lower Council 
IND/AN VOICE 25 
House during the Strawberry Obser­
vance they named your companion Go­
woh-weh, which means She-Carries­
Her, because of her one. time fondness for 
you. From the beginning you were 
destined to do big things, to be different 
from other dolls. That you have failed in 
your purpose so far is neither your fault 
or mine. Nyoh. Wise does Hahgahgee 
think it for you to go upon this search for 
your Soul Light. The lease one can do is 
try. Then everything will turn out for the 
best. 

Meanwhile the cruel Flying Head, 
listening at the smoke-hole, had greedily 
taken in every Word of the craftrnan's 
story. ." Never shall the Cornhusk Doll 
People have Faces, if I can help it. I do 
not wish anybody to be happy," he 
hissed, his eyes hard. "What is to prevent 
my doing away with both of them. An old 
man and a Cornhusk Doll can be no 
match for a powerful creature like,rne." .­
He stretched his wings, then stopped 
in astonishment, for Hahgahgee was 
plucking out of the smoking as;~es of the 
fire small round objects and was eating 
them with evident enjoyment. 

"Enh," quavered the Flying Head, 
wings fluttering. " Can it be that this 
person who eats live coals possesses 
greater Magic than me, one of the most 
terrible of Evil Spirits? Careful must I 
be. When the two have left the lodge, will 
I go in and see for rn..yself. " 

So no sooner had Cornhusk Doll and 
Hahgahgee passed into the forest, than 
the Flying Head,· with a single swoop, 
darted through the entrance and alighted 
in front of the fire . Cautiously he began 
toying with a red hot coal. ''Ug-yah! 
Ouch! " He screeched when the coal 
burned him. " Too much power for me! " 
Thusly shaking his injured claw, he shot 
over the tree tops and was heared of ­
never ag~un. 

Meantime Hahgahgee, after pointing 
out to Cornhusk Doll the Trail which led 
to far-off flats, had returned to his lodge. 
Seeing the coal lying in the middle of the 
floor where 0-sho-weh-do-jeh had left it, 
he carelessly kicked it back on the fire. 
Then chuckling he pushed his gnarled 
fingers under the ashes and brought forth 
several baked acorns. 

Those, Oh Listeners, were the live 
coals that the Flying Head thought he 
had seen Hahgahgee eat. Nevertheless 
neither Cornhusk Doll nor Hahgahgee 
ever realized what a narrow escape had 
been theirs. 
A-ah~soh. More later. 

-By EVERETT PARKER _(TWO ARROWS) and OLEDOSKA 


}111-c 
26 IND/AN VOICE 

"SOMETIMES A LONELY . .." the sun had been victorious over the morning haze, casting a brilliance that made him squint. He entered the large asphalt parking lot and saw a row of bicycles all numbered with a pink card­board tag twisted to the handlebars with piano wire. They stood evenly spaced on their kickstands. A big truck backed up and two men in denim work­suits began unloading more bicycles. A steady stream of people filtered into the parking lot and began inspection. Some carried little spring-bound note­books, jotting down the numbers of their favorites. Children pressed light and horn buttons, tested the strength of fenders and kickstands, kicked at tires and climbed aboard seats with uncanny expertise. Larry's eyes were immediately attract­ed to Number 123, a beautiful red Sting-Ray with a poised wire basket on its handlebars and a chromium carrier over the rear fender. He pressed at the white-wall tires and, judging . by the tread depth, guessed it was almost brand new. He was unable to find a scratch, dent ot rust bubble. He pic­tured himself pumping home and the happy curve that would beset his father's lips over the wisdom of his choice .. He overheard a man command his wife to mark down Number 123 on her pad. She obeyed. Larry observed three more bicycles he liked while a farge, flatbed truck loaded with more bicycles crept into the parking lot. He decided to commit his favorites to memory in order of importance: 123, 147, 96 and 78. A wave of people quickly engulfed the truck, pushing for position and enlarg­ing their growing lists of numbers as each bicycle was unloaded, quality suc­cumbing to quantity. By now a record crowd had gathered, but the people dissolved from Larry's mind and he saw only the rounded forms of the bi­cycles. Finally the truck was barren and a Highway Patrol officer climbed atop its steel-ribbed bed, his badge glinting reflections from the sun. "May I have your attention? Attention please!" he shouted. "The law requires that I read this ordinance before we start, so if I can have your attention. Thank you. In accordance with Section ... " Larry decided to make certain the Sting-Ray hadn't been changed to a different number. He pushed his way toward it, oblivious to the people who were still busy inspecting the collection that now completely framed the park­ing lot. There were Sting-Rays, English 
racers, old bicycles, new ones, and even a few broken ones ofevery manufacture, size, color and style. It was a fantasy only a child could truly appreciate. When he found his red favorite, he sighed happily, noting Number 123 remained unchanged. 
" ... by the State of California, in and 
for the County of Santa Clara. All sa­
les are final and there can be no gua­
rantees or refunds. Now this isn't a 
professional auction," the officer con­
tinued, "so let's not have any fancy 
gesturing or hand waves. Just shout 
out your bid and the highest one takes 
it. There's enough bikes here for every­
body and we have to get rid of them 
all. We do ask that you start with a 
reasonable bid." 

"Can parents bid for their children?" 
a lady shouted. 

The officer nodded and the crowd 
began to buzz in anticipation. One of 
the levi-jacketed workmen placed a blue 
bicycle on the truck bed and the officer 
held up his hands, palms outward, un­
til the noise subsided. "Okay," he said. 
"We've got a Huffy ... looks like it's in 
pretty good shape. I see one dent in 
the front fender...tires look pretty 
good ... Number 17. Who wants to start 
the bidding?" 

A nervous silence settled over the 
crowd. 

"Oka_y then, I'll start the bidding," the officer smiled. Who'll give one dollar? Anybody?" His eyes scanned corner to corner, hoping to ferret out a participant. "Come on now. Certainly this fine bike's worth a dollar to some­body." 
"One dollar and thirty cents," a lady in the front row said. 
"One thirty-five," blurted a man. 
The officer waved his arms. "Hold it, hold it," he said. "I should have told you that we'll raise the bidding by de­nominations of fifty cents only. We've got an awful lot of bikes to get rid of and I don't want to be here all day." 
The woman quickly amended her bid. "One dollar and fifty cents," she said in a raised voice. 
"Two dollars!" 
"Two fifty," shouted a man. 

"Ten dollars," yelled a man in bib overalls. His head was slightly cocked and he wavered where he stood. 
"Now folks, this is only the first bi­cycle," the officer said. "There's plenty more. It might be better to keep the bidding a little more conservative. Now 
sir, do you want to retract your bid?" 
The man peered around, his heavy eyelids a pair of runaway semiphores working in opposition of each other. 
He swayed slightly his rubbe. 
swivelling its disapproval 
"Okay. Sold for ten d~lla 
man cash over at the tablers. 
checks please." t 
Two of the numbers La 
tended to bid on, 96 and 7~ 
posed of in the first hour The 
one sold for twenty-five d
01
blue one for sixteen. Larry h d 
aged a bid. a n 
"Okay now folks, here's a. one ... looks brand new l'Cal Sting-Ray Number 123 · ·,; a 
"Ten dollars!" interru~~~d a 
"Fifteen." Inaa 
"Twenty-five," a well-dressed 
a worsted suit said loudly. 
"Thirty," said a lady. 
A large muscular Negro w 
black beret and thick-rimmed 
glasses grunted with displeas 
!ac~ ,contorting as ~ in a sharp 
Am t you gonna bid on it!" · 
asked. "That's the one you w 
"Hell, I ain't had but one c 
open my mouth all day." 
"Thirty-five!" the well-dressed 
shouted. 
"Forty!" 
"Damn," the Negro said. 
people are crazy. Man, you can 
new bike for less bread than that 
on woman, let's go home. I 
we'd find a bargain here but t 
all lost their cool." 
"...going once, going twice, 
for forty-five dollars!" 
Larry watched the well-dressed 
in the worsted suit pay the man 
table, take possession of the red 
Ray and push it through the 
one hand behind the banana 
other grasping the flecked ban 

He followed the man to the,__," 
area behind the barracks and sa overlap it atop another red bike · huge trunk of his Cadillac. 
uira11• 11 he secured the trunk lid with a line cord, started his car and disa ed in a surge ofpower. 
Larry walked slowly back position, gently squeezing ~ . crowd. The sun was beginmng cent and a majority of the peop_ grown hostile toward the high b "I thought this auction was fi kids," a man shouted in disgust. __.., 
A woman complained: "Yc:P1 the kids do the bidding!" 
"Okay,okay. This next bicyc~ bid on by kids only. Adults k. frain from bidding." The ~ffi tended his arms in a gathenns , "Kids, move down in front so hear you." The gold bicycle that 

urnber t47, was the sole remain­Jd, Nh numerals Larry had memo-
oft e d h .

der d was his secon c oice..riz1!~ dollars!" a young vmce bel­
wed. ,,, 
f~ur. n cents," a little boy shouted, ..f ~ t~eof his soprano voice sounding t~e P:~~ amplified squeak ?f a micro­
b e The crowd roared its endorse­phone. d Larry's bid of five dollars 

ent an unheard, . 
Id to the boy in the red plaid . 0 for fifteen cents," the officer htrtt d The crowd applauded heartily
hoU e . ·1 d . b hf 1
nd the little boy smi e m as u 
triumph. • 
Children bid on more bicycles that but Larry didn't participate for he 
h:d begun the eternal fou!-m~le ~our~ey home. A chill began surgmg mside hu:~ d he broke into a trot to keep warm. :e pushed his wrists against the mois­ture forming in his eyes but he didn't eep. The movements of his legs were numb and automatic and when he ached the familiar surroundings of the orchards little crusts of soft earth invaded his torn sneakers unnoticed. 
eyes focused on the cabins and he ted, listening to the tunes of the urled leaves rustling above him. 
Then reluctantly, he followed the tire tracks toward his cabin, his heart pounding like ceremonial drums. He though of his father and of the im­proved living conditions since leaving the Reservation. Suddenly his ears he­
me filled with the chant of wisdom. 
But when the screen door rapped closed behind him the noise was like an explo­
ion in Larry's ears and awakened him 
to reality. "Did you get a bicycler' Mama asked. " o," Larry said, his heavy eyes sink­
mg to the floor. He cleared his throat nd wallowed. "They were all old. . . mo t of them had broken gears and 
everything." Were there lots of bicycles there?" "Ye . But they were all old and ro en." HeLarry's mot_her stu_died him intently. was standmg as if frozen his eyes 
ma · ' 
gnetized to an uneven plank in the 

floor A · · .
: n mstmctive awareneiS began pu hing her taut, horizontal lips into an uhp ar_d curl. "Maybe it's J·ust as well" 
e ad1 · ' 
n . m a proud tone. "You need a pair of sneakers anyways don't 
.ou. ' 
Ye Mama," Larry said. 
-RICHARD G. GREEN 





: FOR A : : FRIEND... : 
.:•• .•• 
: AGI FT :
., .;.~;:.,,-..., 

: SUBSCRIPTION : 




·········••·••·············
One-year gifl subscription $6.00 
a(f~~~8114:Cftf 
... will mail gift cards to your lucky friends, telling them your special gift is on its way! 
. * Canada and -other countries add $1.00 for postage. 
1To: IND/AN VOICE, P.O. BOX 2033, SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 
I am enclosing a check or money order for $___,for.__subscriptions. 
. 1 sub. $6 . 2 subs. $12 . 3 subs. $18
•1 • 
My name is'---------,-.,-----,-.,..,-----------------~
(please print) 
• I •
Address_______________________•._ City.__________State_________ 
. year gift to_______ . year gift to,_________~ Address________ 
Address---------1-• 
City._________ City._________..... ________ip__ State______
.• .. . .• 
S~ncard__________
.: .. . . 
We'll hand sign an announcement card with name or nickname you choose. 
••• j. •
. PLEASE ENTER MY OWN SUBSCRIPTION, ALSO.


·················••-•······ 

28 IND/AN VOICE 
WIGWAM EVENINGS THIRD EVENING 

The Eagle and the Beaver 
" No, elder sister·, it is not for a hunter 

and a brave to fetch wood for the lodge 
fire! That is woman's task, and it is not 
right that you should ask it of me." 
"But see, my younger brother, you are 

only a small boy and can neither hunt nor 
fight; surely, therefore, it is well for you to 
help our mother at home!" 
The two children, Wasula and Cha­

tanna, as they draw near the old story­
teller's wigwam, are carrying on a dispute 
that has arisen between them earlier in the 
evening, when dry sticks were to be 
gathered for cooking the supper, and 
Chatanna, aged seven, ref used to help his 
sister on the ground that it is not a war­
rior's duty to provide wood. Both appeal 
to their teacher to settle the question. 
"Hun, hun, hay!" good-naturedly ex­

claims the old man. "Truly, there is much 
to be said on both sides; but perhaps you 
can agree more easily after you have heard 
my story." 
The Eagle and the Beaver 
Out of the quiet blue sky there shot like 

an arrow the great War-eagle. Beside the 
clear brown stream an old Beaver-woman 
was busily chopping wood. Yet she was 
not too busy to catch the whir of descend­
ing wings, and the Eagle reached too late 
the spot where she had vanished in the 
midst of the shining pool. 
He perched sullenly upon a dead tree 

near by and kept his eyes steadily upon the 
smooth sheet of water above the dam . 
After a time the water was gently stirred 

and a sleek, brown head cautiously ap­
peared above it. 
A Speech by Gerald Wilkerson 
(From Page 19) 
Cure yourself and we will go with you anywhere. What can NCAI do to become effec­tive? 
The object of the Indian Movement is 

not just to survive because we will al­
ways survive. We can eat commodities. 
We can live in shacks. Some of us will 
catch diseases from a poort diet and die 
but there will always be Indians. Indians 
in misery will always be replaced by In­
dians in misery. What this Indian Move­
ment wants to do is to survive as a peo­
ple. 
But survival as a people is more than 

standing around a drum, as important 
as that might be. It is more than a feel­
ing. Survival is a structure. 
This is what all the questions raised 

yesterday were about. The structure of 
Editor's Note: This is the third of a series ofevening stories. Ea.ch story has a moral. Credit is given to Wigwam Evenings by Charles A. Eastman and Elaine Goodale Eastman. 
"What right have you," reproached the Beaver-woman, "to disturb thus the mother of a peaceful and hard-working people?" 

"Ugh, I am hungry," the Eagle replied shortly. "Then why not do as we do -let other folks alone and work for a living?" 
"That is all very well for you," the Eagle retorted, "but not everybody can cut down trees with his teeth, or live upon bark and weeks in a mudplastered wig­wam. I am a warrior, not an old woman! " 
" It is true that some people are born trouble-makers, " returned the Beaver, quietly. "Yet I see no good reason why you, as well as we, should not be content with plain fare and willing to toil for what you want. My work, moreover, is of use to others besides myself and family, for with my dam-building I deepen the stream for the use of all the dwellers therein, while you are a terror to all living creatures that are weaker than yourself. You would do well to profit by my example. " 
So saying, she drove down again to the bottom of the pool. 
The Eagle waited patiently for a long time, but he saw nothing more of her; and so, in spite of his contempt for the harm­less industry of an old Beaver-woman, it was he, not she, who was 0bliged to go hungry that morning. 
Pride alone will not fill the stomach. 

NCAI does not permit the voice of the 
young, the urban, and the poor to be 
heard. The structure of NCAI does not 
permit the energies of these groups to be 
released into it. No communication 1s 
possible. 
NIYC recommends the following: 
(1) Allow the urban Indians in and re­

write the Constitution so that NCAI is .on record as officially serving all Indians. 
(2) 
Elect' the officers in the middle of the conference so that those delegates who cannot afford to stay the whole week can bote and the body can give the pew officers instructions. 

(3) 
Have regional meetings for all In­dian people. 

(
4) Make NCAI an organization of all Indian people and not just an organiza­tion of special Indian groups. · 


I will not demand anything here be­cause I am tired of rhetoric. There is no way NIYC can drag NCAJ k' . 
screaming into the 20th cent ic must do that itself. I would ;ry, 
. . ave 
spect for any organization th 
crawl or beg to get into NCAI at 
The question is not ho; youth, the urban, and the p / 11l the processes of NCAI. The q what NCAI can offer these gro them in. It is the leadership \ that_ should be caucu~ing to fin: gettmg these groups m not these caucusing to see how they can NCAI cannot move without thern 
Sometimes I feel that we Ind'· 
~ot ~ real people at all but small 
mg httle groups each pursuing itsq 
terest. I got that feeling yesterday• 
speeches and conversations. But 
I am able to travel around the co 
meet an Indian from across the 
in a bus station. We talk and w 
buses leave I know that we are · 
peo~le. We must tra~slate what God 
put mto our hearts mto united 
action. 
NIYC has consistently supported concept of the tribal councils. members want desperately to get into the tribal community as effecti bal leaders. We are dedicated t to the survival of the tribal comm to our survival as a people. Th ture of our organizations make t · cult. 
People talk of brotherhood butin ity !here can be no brotherhood unequals. There is no brotherhood tween master and slave. There is a in the Department of Inerior to p us out of exi~tence as a people. Un situation is corrected there can brotherhood with the Whiteman. can be no brotherhood without j · 
Likewise in our Indian orga · when one group of Indian peo structurally placed in an inferior tion there can be no brotherhood Indians. The energy and geni change NCAI is in this hall. Let' in a open meeting and rewrite the thing. . 
The problem in this hall today one of lacking good will, lack of a or lack of love for each other, or sincerity in making NCAI work. 
The structure must be changed to mit unity. The structure as it is no signed to create one of two thin fective dictatorship or chaos. . b 
Any Indian organization whtC not serve is expendable. We want to survive. NIYC holds out the friendship to you. Please take it. 






CURRENT 

INDIAN BOOKS 
s to be a new trend in
m

'11. re see h . h . 
,,. . n literature, one w zc tries to r~ca count the role of Native 
,nto ac .r h US 
,;can in the history OJk t el d. . if these accounts ac now e ge 
0 1 0 
role of the Indian has been to

th
I e h whim 0 -r the federal govern­
or t e 'J d. 
10 move as the governn:,/nht lzr­1~nd to f o/low the orders OJ t e n­
u. agent once they were on the reserva­
~ . also a realization that the new 
,,, re, ,-rl d. 
. ·a built on the bones OJ n zans. 
110n" . fi 
. much guilt pouring out rom 

r , l h.
ett writers, who are most y w zte, r~e past sins of their fathers in the 
r 
. Ci fry and the misszons. . . 

J 
. Christensen, Associate Editor of ·dia and Methods" magazine, re­d ome of this new literature in the ,ober, 1971 issue. Here is his biblio­phy. nton, Ferdinand. Art of the Maya; GP.Putnam's Sons:NewYork. $17.50 


ppleton, LeRoy H. A'!'-erican In-Deign and Decoratzon; Dover: ork. 4.00 
rm trong, Virginia Irving (ed.). "I H ,·e poken;" American History Through the Voices of the Indians; 
llow Pre : Chicago. Hardbound, ; paperback, $2.95 ii·. L.R. Indian Slave Trade in the thwe r; Tower Publications: New r ..95 

Mera, H.F. Pueblo Designs: "The Rain Bird;" Dover: New York. $2.50 
Nabokov, Peter. Two Leggings: The Making of a Crow Warrior; Apollo: New York. $2.25 
Neihardt, John G. When the Tree Flowered: The Fictional Biography of Eagle Voice, A Sioux Indian; University of Nebraska Press: Lincoln, Nebraska; $1.65 
Norbeck, Oscar E. Book of Indian Life Crafts; Tower Publications: New York. $1.25 
Parks, Jack. Who Killed Custer? Tower Publications:New York. $.95 
Sides, Dorothy Smith. Decorativl! Art of the Southwestern Indians; Dover: New York. $1.50 
Additional Bibliography 

Tebbel, John. The Compact History of the Indian Wars; Tower Publications: New York $1.25 
Van Every, Dale. The Disinherited: The Lost Birthright of the American In­dian; William Morrow & Co.: New York. $2.50 
Sandoz, Mari. Cheyenne Autumn; Avon: New York. $1.25 Schellie, Don. Vast Domain of Blood; Tower Publications: New York. $.95 Deloria, Vine. Custer died for Your Sins; Avon: New York. $1.25 
Silverberg, Robert. Home of the Red Man; Washington Square Press: New York. $.75 
Barnouw, Victor. Dream of the Blue Heron; Dell: New York. $.75 Williams, Jeanne. New Medicine; G.P.Putnam's Sons: New York. $4.95 Ellis, Mel. The Wild Runners; Holt, Rinehart and Winston:New York. $4.95 Mitchell, Jayne F. Old Fish Hawk; Pocket Books: New York. $.95 Waters, Frank. The Man Who Killed the Deer; Pocket Books: New York. $.95 
IND/AN VOICE 29 
(From Page 10) 
from the hardships of a reservation en­vironment. But it was not her but four · boys who were carrying out her direct,.. ions. So the procedure I followed was to get her support; to get her on my side, so ..to.speak. One afternoon, a big bully of a boy said a dirty word, teasing one of the girls sitting in the next aisle. This leader girl rose to the occasion and walked two rows over to the boy's desk. He acted surprised and rose to his feet to meet the challenge, but · before he could even clench his fists, she struck him so hard on the jaw with her fist that he fell back into his seat before he realized what hap­pened. We didn't hear any more dirty words from him for the entire year. She had put him in his place, but quick. One Friday afternoon, during drawing, he drew a cartoon of his teacher which I still have as one of my valuable collec­tions. 
In closing, I will say that this artocle barely scratches the surface of all there is to know to learn and to disvover about teaching Indian children. But if it even suggests that more should be taught a­bout this important topic, then it will have served its purpose and intent. There is much more to learn than this, as any experienced teacher of Indian chil­dren will vouch for. 
-Clair F. Maynard, Sr. Sioux San Day School Rapid City, S.D. 57701. 

Collier, John. The Indians of the Americas; Mentor: New York. $.95 Curtis, Natalie. The Indian's Book; Dover: New York. $4.50 Brandon, William. The Magic World: American Indian Songs and Poems; 
William Morrow & Co.: New York. $2.50 
Bierhorst, John. In the Trail of the Wind: American Indian Poems and Rit­ual Orations; Farrar, Strauss and Gir­oux: New York. $4.95 
Concha, Joseph L. Lonely Deer; Red Willow Society: Taos, New Mexico. $. 75 
Weather, Winston. Indian and White; University of Nebraska Press: Lincoln, Nebraska. $3.95 
Melzack, Ronald. Raven, Creator of the World; Little, Brown, and Co.: Boston. $4.95 
Waters, Frank. Book of the Hopi; Ballentine: New York. $1.25 

30 /NDIAN VOICE 



THE FOUNTAIN OF YOUTH GINSENG 

Ponce de Leon traveled the length and breadth of the New World in search of the Fountain of Youth. He never found it. If it ud been a snake, it woulda bit'im; but it was only a root -and in typically Indian fashion, mind­ed its own business. The Ginseng Plant, that is-the scientific name is Panax quinquefolium, the panax indicating that it will cure what ever ails you. It was referred to by the Cherokees in everyday language as Otali Gunli, "It­Climbs-the-Mountain" or "Mountain­Climber". In the Sacred Formulas it was Little Man" and sometimes "Great Man''. Early American Settlers called it Seng, Sang, or Shang in different parts of the country. The Ancient Chi­nese named it Schinseng, meaning "Man-Plant". 
Ginseng grows from Canada to the edge of Florida and as far west as Oklahoma. It grows in deep shade, generally on the north or sun-shiny side of the mountain. It is a strange, wild, exotic plant that prefers the wild, inac­cessible heights at the feet of big timber, especially hickory or beech trees. 
The plant has broad, bright green leaves, greenish-white flowers, and a stalk of scarlet berries. At the age of about five years, the creamy, spindle­shaped root resembles a carrot or a parsnip. Some roots have been found that were a quarter to a half-century old, and some grandfather roots of 75 years with deep encircling wrinkles gi­ving evidence of their grat age. The stalk scars on the neck may be counted, for the plants above ground die back to the roots each year. These older roots have an uncanny resemblance to the shape of a man-and in Cherokee medicinal plant lore, the appearance of an herb carries the message of what it is to be used for. 
The best time for gathering is in the 
Fall, usually in October, when the cold 
winds drive the sap down into the 
roots, making them heavier and more 
potent. And this is when the berries 
appear, each a shining, round, red 
arrowhead pointing up its golden 
treasure. 
In Colonial times, Cherokees often 
gathered the roots and traded them in 
at the General Store for merchandise. 

Trappers and Traders searched for it as they tramped through the woods. Many Ginseng Farms were started, but it was very difficult to tame this Wild Mountain Spirit. Some Wildcrafters are able to make a living searching it out at the present time; and still others spend their Vacations digging for the Green Gold. There is a ready market for all that they can find. 
A.I.M.A. (American Indian Medical Association-so to speak) dictates that you must first offer up a prayer to the Mountain Spirit, addressing him as "Great Man" and asking for permission to take only a si;nall part of his body, enough for your need but none to waste. You must not rush in like a greedy hog and denude the earth. It is in order to pass respectfully by the first three and dig the fourth, then work back toward the beginning, resetting the beds as you work, and carefully planting the seeds. Even modern Wild­crafters are known to follow this pro­cedure to insure the future of the beds for those who come after. It is forbid­den ever to take all of the roots. You must drop a bead in each cavity before covering it 01.£er, for it is good to be a Giver as well as a Taker for the Earth. · 
Immediately after digging, the roots should be tied in a bag and dropped into the nearest running stream. If the bag floats, it is good medicine; if it sinks to the bottom, permission has not been granted and the roots will be nothing. The Mountain Spirit must not be offended. 
A Medicinal Formula for use with the Ginseng is HIAHNO DINISKODI DUNITLVNVI, To Cure A Headache: 
Little Man, The Healer, Sge! Hisagaya Tsastiga! Cloaked in russet Brown! Hidawehi! Udohaleyi Little Man, The Highest gutladogi gesv hetsa-On the sunny slope gasohvdhanileni. Ota­Smooth away the Stranger; wini galohi. Utsihnawa Soothe away the frown. Godhlataha. Utshnawa. It is done surely udohniga. Iya! 
The Ginseng root is to be chewed while the Medicine Man sings the Formula and massages the head and neck where the pain is. The song is re­peated 4 times; and the entire pro­cedure may be repeated as often as 4 times between dawn and noon, until the pain is gone. 
War parties usually carried it to treat arrow wounds and to strengthen the recovery of a fallen Warrior. 
Ginseng tea was made by boiling the root in water. It has a slight licorice 

NIYC DICTIONARY 
The following are excerpts from the I C Dictionary of Indian Terms, tenth edition, 11111­bridged and undaunted. Authorized and compiled by the Editorial Board meeting at Pete's bet Acoma and Laguna Pueblos. This Dictionary made possible by a grant from the Adolph Brewing Company. 
Segregation -When an Indian marries anotbcr Indian of the same tribe. Integration -When an Indian marries anotbcr Indian of a different tribe. Assimilation -When an Indian marries a noa-Indian. 
Indian Liberal -An Indian who wants to be white but is angry because white people won't Id him. 
White Liberal -A person who makes 
a naJDC fighting for Indian control of Indian programs ends up running these Indian programs himself. 
Indian Scholar -An Indian who has t,een grad school and describes the virtues of his rac:e_ "sub-culture positives", he also attends the Indill Scholars Conference yearly. 
True Indian Scholar -An Indian who has bll er been to school, does not speak English and never left the Reservation. 
Indian of Convenience -A person wh~ covers he is ¼ Indian by blood when the BIA 15 ing out the scholarship money. 
An Inconvenient Indian -An Indian who on an all white school board. White People -A culturally crude, in horde from Europe. 
flavor. It was used for bodily weak e_xhaustion, ne~rasthenia, weak meta hsm, rheumatism, or any sickne bi. injury. It was particularly value:s fi restoring the sexual, physical, and tal powers of aging people, andlllcQ.. especially valued for lengthening '4a life span. Strangely enough, the c~ se people at the opposite end of the earth have been using the same for countless centuries for exacu/: same purpose. 
Modern scientists have been able find absolutely nothing of any med· 1~ nal value in either the Indian or c':: nese Ginseng; neither have they foUJld it harmful in any way_. !fowever, in t 
past, many folk-med1cmes which ha been dismissed as worthless were later found to contain wonder drugs. Per haps future generations may unra the mystery of Ginseng. 
Or perhaps someday people will take people instead of pills and learn to love one another-for that is the only true MIRACLE MEDICINE OF MAN. 
-RAVEN HAIL )« 

hawk _ An Indian whose
0 


,, uncle Tohmmf r a $20,000 a year job at BIA, n be boUg t 0 
o or HfW. T pe _ see Political Hack. john Cro_we, Y e _ see Lucretia Borgia. tfi/ma Victo 'I':!_ Usually an Indian whose 
Sef/-Out . h' 

1nJian . t which is brown i_s is nose. I phY ,ca! par The white man's "final solution" 
. mination -
Ttr · problem. · 
1 lndia_n _ To the white r~~ist, _land and wa­/U rvation red·· to the white liberal, a con­~et unconq_u~o a~ Indian, · a home land to be 
uation camp,d at all co ts. . .
c:nde .b _ A sovereign nation ordamed by 
,an Tri_~
1 
Great pint. 1· · f
Id Movement -A coa it10n o non-Third Wor using white men's money, white 
peop1es h'


''. . lo so as to be like w ite ~en. n ideoM .gl~ant _ An Indian who smcerely prac­
l ,an 11 . . . 
. native tnbal rehg10n. . 

hi mi·nation -the time when every In­
Jf-Deter . 
n afford a white maid. 

n . -r oder -A white person granted a spe-
Jndwn ,r . 
by the government to rob Indians.

I I n e . 
. u/ater Rights -The nght of every In­
/ ,an "' · 11 · h · h
n10 make water on any BIA msta ation w 1c 001 doing it job. . The Happy Hunting Ground -The Liberty Bar lbuquerque. 
H'ar on Poverty -A ~idnight raid ~y the· po­10 e ict an Indian family for not bemg able to their rent.
BIA -An organization designed to regroup the Cavalry after Custer's defeat; stands for Bring I ian round. Indian Curio -An Indian who teaches phoney Ind n lore to a boy scout troop. Anthro -A person who steals his Ph.D from an Indian grave. for1y-ine -An Indian social dance held in a rtmote area at night after a pow-wow for which 
bod9 always forgets to bring the drum. Culture -omething white people don't have. Indian Culture -Something whie people would cto have. BIA Boarding school -A government fun 
n11fic laboratory experimenting with Indian id 10 ee if they can change their skin color. 
Indian Studies Program -The only good In­nI a read Indian. Traditionalist -The only good Indian is a red 
I ian. Freedom -Something sought by white people . ama ing money, something sought by Indians . rving the people. 
Economic Development -A proposition put to I ians by which in exchange for their land, water, and cultural identity, they can have a $8,000 
,cmment housing unit (guaranteed for three month ) and a job as a dish washer or maid in hite owned motel on their leased land. Pick-Up -Something a Navajo's wife rides in 
of. ~blo -An Indian com~unity which carries a 20,000 year tradition of mutual respect sur­
ounded by communities of thieves who carry on a year tradition ofgreed and exploitation. M:5ionary -A chaplain to the 7th Cavalry de­
1 1.0 an Indian Reservation.~t1stianity -The extension of Manifest Des­
1 
. Yother means. ~assacre -When Indians defeat the white man. '~tory -When whit~ people wipe out a de­J, he group of Indians. ;.ntayne -see Honky Fascist Pig. Uc~~e Blood -An Indian who has drunk too 
Christoph
Self-D er ~olumbus-The first wet-back. fought fete~mination -What white people ~ Int 10 1776 and are now fighting against 
tans are demanding it. 

IND/AN VOICE 31 

A COMMEMORATION 
It was the Moon of the Long Night, 
It was the Moon of the Long Night, The Moon of the Popping Trees, The Winter Time ­
350 years ago. 

Off the "stern and rockbound" New England coast was moored a ship, a miserably small, secondhand vessel, 
A Mayflower, which for weeks and weeks had been home to a handful, perhaps,a hundred, freedom-hungry people 
And Lo! the Wampanoags saw their plight, the Pilgrims' Plight, -they were tossed about and tired, -they lacked housing; they h_ad no jobs, -they lacked knowledge and skill 
needed for winter survival; They obviously needed an expanded nutrition program. And Massasoit, with great compassion, said, 
"Surely they are disadvantaged". A Grand Council was called. Samoset, sensing that "those people" were indeed different, 
cautioned the elders about strangers and what their coming would do to the neighborhood. Another Council member saw other dangers, "They will become dependent on our handouts and not want to work "We will have to give them food all winter; and seed for spring planting." And indeed they did! The Wampanoag.s cared for them. 
So the winter passed prayerfully ­with housing project progressing with hunt providing food and fur. 
In the spring, they extended their services 
to provide technical assistance -on what to plant-how, -when, and where -how to nurture the plants -and discern the harvest time. 

The Wampanoag women taught them the proper preparation of their fbod. After the planting, the growing, the harvesting, WAS THE TIME OF THANKSGIVING! and then . . . and later ... 
and farther . . . deeper ... more ... stronger ... Until now ... 350 years have passed, and NOW, The Wampanoags, the Pequots, the Narragansetts, the Pasmaquoddy, 
The United American Indians of New England have declared THANKSGIVING DAY to be A NATIONAL DAY OF MOURNING FOR NATIVE AMERICANS!. And tpe Pilgrims are meeting in New England, discussing, planning their balanced programs. AND SO! 
by Dorothy W. Davids (Stockbridge-Munsee) 

32 IND/AN VOICE 
AMERICAN INDIAN 
PRESS ASSOCIATION 

NEWS 

HOW ARD ON OEO INDIAN DESK 
Robert E. Howard (Blackfeet), 45, has been appointed director of the Indian Division of the Office of Economic Opportunity. Howard leaves the Community Action Program of the Blackfeet Tribal Business Council in Browning, Mont., which he held for five years, for the OEO post vacant since July 2. Howard is president of Tri-State Tribes and serves as Blackfeet represen­tative to the Labor Department and HEW. He received a bachelor's degree in educati6n from Western Montana College in 1952 and a masters in education from the same institution in 1964. Said OEO Director Phillip Sanchez: "Robert Howard is both 
sensitive to the needs of Indians and familiar with the grassroots operation of OEO programs. 
AIM BREAKTHROUGH ON URBAN PROPERTY 
The Milwaukee Chapter of the Ameri­can Indian Movement (AIM) has successfully enlisted the help of the BIA in preparing an application for land in the Milwaukee area now pending before the General Services Administration (GSA), manager of federal excess pro­perties. Lands phased out of service by any federal arm or agency fall under GSA supervision, during which other federal agencies can request use of the property. The BIA requested the land, held for several weeks by AIM members and others, for a community service and human resource facility. The AIM plea for assistance won acceptance from both apparently opposing factions in the Washington BIA by AIM's Milwaukee Director Herb Powless. 
FINAL ALASKA BID ON CLAIMS 
In the countdown on the Alaska Native claims now in a joint Senate­House conference committee, Natives are seeking five final instruments of settlement. They are asking for a 30-10 land formula (30 million acres determined for their use now, 10 million after state selection); establishment of 12 regional Native corporations; a $1 billion settlement "promptly and equitably"; land selection village-by­village prior to state selection of lands; and continuing guaranteed rights to hunt, fish and trap. 

PIT RIVER SUES GOVERNMENT 
The Pit River Tribal Council has filed a $4 million damage suit against California's Shasta County and the U.S. government in connection with a bloody confrontation between federal and county law enforcement officers and . tribesmen near Burney on Oct. 27 of last year which resulted in the ouster and arrest of 17 Indians. The Pit River Indians are claiming ancestral rights to 
3.5 million acres · in northern California. The council contends the land taken from Indians was illegal and that geno­cide was committed against then be­tween 1850 and the present. The suit charges federal and county officials with battery, false arrest, false imprisonment and malicioµ_s prosecution. 
Strip Mining Operation Turned Down 
A 40-year stripmining operation and a 
$160 million powerplant have been 
turned down by members of the Three 
Affiliated Tribes of North Dakota -the 
Mandans, Hidatsas and Arikaras -on 
the Fort Berthold reservation. 
In a recent public meeting, members unanimously agreed to halt the pro­jected stripmine-powerplant develop­ment. Chairman Nathan Little Soldier said he would act in accordance with the wishes of his people. 
The powerp-lant, planned by the 
United Power Assn., was to have been 
fired by low-grade coal unearthed by the 
Consolidated Mining Co. from a 7,000­
acre stripmine on the reservation. Power 
generated by the plant would have pro­
vided electricity for the city of 
Minneapolis, 800 miles away. 
The unanimous rejection of the power 
development plan was viewed here as a 
significant precedent leading the way for 
other tribes faced with pending loss of 
immense stretches of tribal lands for 
stripmining. 
Smokestack emissions from the Four 
Corners Powerplant near Farmington, 
N:M. and widespread damage from Applacian and Black Mesa stripmining operations figured prominately in the hearings. 
The Affiliated Tribes would have re­ceived payment of $2,000 per acre of stripmined land to be paid over the 40­year duration of mining and powerplant operations. 

SCHOOL BOARD COALITION FORMS 
Nine Indian school board formed the Coalition of ~ .. Contr~lled ~chool _Boards (P.oOJ 399, Pme Ridge, S.D.) to press · BIA into speeding up its con~ efforts with them. In recent rneef Washington representatives fro1 nine schools in the West and A rapped the BIA and Interior for p in~, then delaying~ high school inro River, Wyo., which caused a h' dropout rate among students aw .~ the new school. The Coalition is aa ing for final approval of pending p contracts, inclusion of the John O'Malley Act as a contracting basi 0 cational services for terminated tri reversal of growing state controi provision of technical assistance. 
NCAl'S 1972 LEGISLATIVE PRIORITIES 
The National Congress of Ame· Indians through a special legi la 1 committee has established the folio priorities among the various bill pending before the Congress (I) termination resolutions; (2) the tr counsel authority; (3) Indian educati 
(4) credit assistance and bu in development legislation; (5) contra for federal programs; (6) return onetime tribal lands and surplus Ian Indians; (7) road construction app priations; (8) establishment of Interior assistant secretary for In · affairs; and (9) extension of the Iii the Indian Claims Commission. 
Wait ti/ I get the guy t~at h. 1 

put my war paint on lzke t ,s. 

Prayer wthe qrear :7v1.ystery 

9rear:Mysrery, you exutedjrom me first, 
:sf1/, thi& earth you crearecl; great Jv.fysrery-Coof UfiOn me, tfiat thi: :Jlatwn waY_ [ive.Earth, Father efal(:/make thu ~ri1!tf; yity me. cfiefef al{, J make th& ~ring;
yity me. Syirit Creatum if theJur wi'ml6­tv you :}~r tliv.s yipe that me ffatwn may Cive. J{ortfi-th& day no Wier creature may_ be mentiorld; 
6ifore theface ef tfu 7'/orth, fet tfit )(awn live. Sunri&e-rw or!d:r creature may 6e mentwnd Jv.1.ay there Ge no adversity thd-t the:Nation may [ive, Wur,:Natwn ef Ihurufers -give me agoo£ da~ 
that the Jlatwn may live. greatJ\Aystery-you are mighty. Pity me 

Iii Jfatwn ~ live; 9rearJviysury-he~ me with an omen, 
that the :Jlatwn may·five. 
SISTER SUSAN SCHEET, 
O.S.B. is the calligrapher 
ATTENTION SUBSCRIBERS 
Change of Address? 


Zip Code Correct? 
We can assure prompt delivery of your maga­
zine if we show the correct address and·ZIP 
Code on your mailing label. (Postal regula­
tions require us to file addresses according 'Y PRINT YOUR NEW ADDRESS HERE 'Y 
to ZIP CODE.) 

If you move, be sure to 
NAM~----­
STREET______
Fill out and mail to: 
CITY______
IND/AN VOICE P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, California 95050. 
STAT IP__ 


¦

ISi 


¦ 
un 
e n 
1ng. 
I ,

For years, white people ~aye been So we thought there was telling one crazy story about Indians one way to get the true facts about after another. __ Indians out in the open. Start a pub­
...__ 

So it's not surprising when_th~y . '-. Iication devoted to contemporary In accuse us of being _everJthing from dians on the national level. "ignorant savages" 
to "drunken But somehow we couldn't quit fools." --, lower ourselves to name calling. 
We understand. That would be too easy. 
After all, Indian has always been Instead, we decided to try some­a pretty strange name. And just hear­thing harder. Educate white people ing it out of the blue, you'd probably · to the Indian view of America. Le never figure out th~ truth. . ~,-, . them fi d out what today's Indian 
That Columbus wasn't ji{~the ~ is really like. West Indies was his fault, nqt ours. , -~<, ·it And how he got there. And this was only rthe 
beginning of 1s, i"rcJf th&;t doesn't get us a little un· white misunderstanding. \_ 1/. . derstanding for once, nothing 
~ 
~ 
BULK RATE 
U.S. POSTAGE 
4c PAID PERMIT NO. 2040 



P.O. BOX 2033 
SAN JOSE , CALIF 
SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 





