Indian Voice 
2 . ................................. 
. Indian Voice . 
~ l .......Ru =nnr : . .
. Indian Voice, the all-Indian monthly maga-. 
zine, is published by the Native American 
. 
Publishing Company, a non-profit organiza-. tion, to present an authentic view of the 

. 
American Indian history, culture and heri-. 


. tage. It will endeavor to express the hopes, . fears and aspirations of those who are the 
. true Native Americans. Photocomposition . and make-up of pages is accomplished by . Indian-owned Computype Phototypesetting . Company ofSacramento. 
. .
. EDITOR .
FERN WILLIAMS 

. (Sioux) . . ASSOCIATE EDITORS . 
RUDY CASAZZA 

. (Seneca) . 
SMOKEY SILENT FOX 

. (Sioux) . 
. ARCHIE BLACKSMITH . 
(Sioux) 

. SECRETARY-TREASURER . 
MARY ANNE NAVARRO 

. (Kiowa) . 
ILLUSTRATOR 

. ARTHUR MILLARD . 
. (Ouechan) . 
STAFF 

. ANN HANSEN . 
(Acoma-Pueblo) 

. JERRY ROYBAL . 
. (Jicarilla) . 
GEORGETTE BOYER 

. (Sioux) . 
LEONARD BEDEAUX 

. (Chippewa) . 
. VICTOR BECENTI . 
(Navajo) 

. ROBERT ANDREW MEIGS . 
(Cherokee-Choctaw) 

. DARIO WAYNE SUNDOWN . 
(Cree) 

. JIM RACINE . 
. (Pikuni-8/ackfoot) . 
DAVID CHAVERS 

. (Lumbee) . . RON PRIMEAUX .
(Ponca) 

. Readers' comments in the form of letters or . 
. articles are welcome. Indian Voice editors . 
. reserve the right to edit material submitted. . Please mail your articles to: Editor, P.O. Box 
. 2033, Santa Clara, California 95050. . 
. Phone (408) 246-1442 . 
. SUBSCRIPTION DONATION . .-$5.00 Yearly ~ 

EDITORIAL 
By Dean Cha 


Cato Valandra, the man who robbed the Rosebud re . . . while he was chairman, was back in the news again rect '1.''.tton 
h .b ' h · · nt' I
11.

that se mg t e tri es aymg equipment and tractors ,,·h\
1

chairman was not enough. When he left office he took 
< 11
.1 ent1

tronics plant with him! It went this way. When Cato was tribal chairman he ·old 
. . d h. h b 1 mo
haymg equipment an some tractors w 1c e onged to th, . being. a dumb l_ndian Uust dish.onest), h~ invested the mon:t:r sales m shares m the bank of Gregory (South Dakota) .1 g·t: 
' ( (· tat 

grocery store, a hardware store, and bought new cars for all h (There were some other dealings involved, such as mongagin 1 the reservation to the same bank in Gregory, but it get· •o con I th_at we'll not tI_'Y to expl~in ~t. _A former tri~al equipment of~~ friend of the writer, he quit his JOb when the inventory he took that there was practically no equipment for him to take care of~ ) 
The money Cato raised was just chicken feed, though. Ile , some real money. So he used tribal money to finance an electronic on the reservation . OEO put up most of the money, but the tribe chip in to make it legal, so Cato managed it. The plant opened in and has been turning out parts for IBM ever since. IB:\.l like · it they get cheap Indian labor. Cato likes it because he is making ab The people on the reservation like it because it is better than I j welfare. 
Even though Cato left office in December of 1969, he is still ma bundle off the plant, exploiting his own tribesmen. It seem· that he left office he took alL tribal records with him, including the rern Rosebud Electronics, Inc. According to the Rapid City Journal, "then announced to the press that the business was not owned b tribe, but by a private corporation, Rosebud Electronics, Inc." 
Webster Two Hawk was elected tribal chairman in place of When Webster tried to recover the records, he couldn 't. For the pa years he has operated somewhat in the blind, not being able to <let what the status of the tribal books and records was before he took Finally, just in time to spoil Cato's chances of being elected rhai again (he was in the running), Two Hawk filed a suit aga inst \'ala Christine Valandra, Wilson H. Emery, and Rosebud Electronic. I 
The suit seeks $363,000.00 damages for the tribe, 163,000 in a damages, and $200,000 in exemplary damages, as well as a.-kin court to declare that the electronics plant is the property of the tri addition, it asks for the return of the business records and the ap ment of a receiver to operate the business during the time the u waiting action. 
Cato is not starving in the meantime. He has all his other bu ·in 
plus the electronics plant, to tide him over. 
Will the tribe win, and get the electronics plant back? Well, 0~ 
probably not fight too hard for it.Jim Wilson, the OEO lndian._ 1•• al 
Sioux (Lakota) and has been known to play establishment polllll 
has since resigned , but was in office when the OEO money ' 
through, and would presumably be called on if OEO gets inrnhed. 
chances of him admitting the government was deceived, as ,,·ell a 
tribe, seem slim. 

The tragedy of this story for Indians nationwide is that it _i · no 
isolated case. It has also happened in Nav;:~o country, in Hopi r'.t 
in Pit River country, etc., etc. It happened from ~laine to C:ah 0 
wherever there are Indians. It seems to be caused by the tribal 0 
who lets his allegiance to his people lose its importance to his alle 1 
to money, or to ~i~ allegian~e to his w~ite frie1:ds. . . all 
Electing_ t~ad1t1onal l_nd1~ns to tribal offices will not sohe 
1

problems !aC1ng us, but 1t will be one hell of a start. Instead of e 
the white man with the Indian skin, the Apple, let's elect some 
who have proven their ability as leaders, and their allegiance 10 
A'YATATATATATA own people. One Cato is enough, but unfortunately there are doze 


RELOCATION JOE 

Back in the Big City 

mi~ht sa · b · 

Y my JO is down to Earth .
I

one workfor ever talks back to me!'' 


TABLE OF tOHTENTS 
2 3 4 5


6 
7 
8 9 
10 
12 13 14 15 18 19 
ABOUT THE COVER 
-Jean Shaw. a Pa1ute Indian ,~ an artist of some merit. She , oils doing both representational paIntIngs In addition to her art­closely with the San Jose In­1s currently the President of the n Club of San Jose City College. 



Deganawidah-Quetzalcoatl University 
This land is ours! Degana\\'idah-Quet­zalcoatl C niversity is for the people! !! 
D.Q.C. is located in the central ,·alley 7 S miles east of San Francisco and six miles north\\'est of the Lniversity of Cali­fornia in Davis. 
The campus is 647 acres of flat farm­land, water, se\,·ers, consisting of I 0 buildings -offices, dormitories and garages. 
D.Q.L. is gO\-erned by a 32-member board of directors elected annualh·: 16 Indians and 16 Chicanos. 
The philosophy forthwith is such that our Indian and Chicano people possess a great deal in common racial heritage. Our cultural traditions and life \·alues differ from the dominant society. \lost important -both Indian and Chicano people want to keep our culture and language. We have little desire to lose them and become Anglos~ 
Indians and Chicanos continue to suffer from neglect and discrimination. 
We are being denied educational opportunities. \ \.'here education is avail­able it does not speak to the needs or life values of our Indian and Chicano rnuth. 
For these reasons Degana\\'id; h-Quet­zalcoatl L niversity was initiated -an Institution of learning designed to meet the needs of our Chicano and Indian culture; a university \\·here the needs of our people will be met. 
This is our universit\·. \\'e are _just starting and to make our dream come true we need you -our people -to gl\·e us ideas, to help plan, to \,·ork on all parts of our school and mainly to be here. 
If you have a gripe about the way educa­tion is and you would like something new 
. come and do something about it. This is your chance and ours. 
Who ma\' enroll? 
Any person age 18 or older. High School graduation not needed. Certain special courses also require the permi sion of the instructor. Any person 17 or younger must hm·e permission of the instructor. 
For further information \\'rite or call : 
D.Q.L., Rt. I 
Box -W3 
Box 309 
Da\ is. California 956 16
..... 

INDIAN COMMUNITY LEADERS RE-ELECTED 
Founding members of LID.--\ \,·ere all re-elected to the board of directors during recent elections by all LID.--\ members, and four ne\,· directors \\·ere added. 
Board \!embers are as follo\\'s: Eugene F..'-ite\\·,m. President; Titus R. \\.apato, \ 'ice President ; James R. \lcGirt, Secre.­tary; Robert \\· . Concho. Treasurer; Jo•­seph C:. \ 'asquez. Senior .-\d\ isor; .-\I Col­ton. LID.-\ C:LI\lB Representative; Freel \\·. Gabourie, Thomas B. Ste\,·z1rt. Teddie 
0. Craig, and \\.illiam Bruguier. 
Francis E. .\lien. formerly secretary, re­gretfully submitted his resignation in order to plan his 0\,·n business. 
The board of directors makes policy decisions for all LID.-\ programs. has legal responsibility for all contracts. and has re­sponsibilit \' for all fund raising acti\·ities. 
BRUCE REAFFIRMS AUTHORITY 
By Tom Richards,Jr. 
American Indian Prex.r As.rnciation 

_ Indian Commissioner Louis R. Bruce reaffirmed his authority over the Indian Bureau and Deputy Commissioner John 
0. Crow denied he had threatened to fire Indian water rights expert William H. Veeder during a comprehensive press briefing. 
Discussing the Cro"· appointment, Bruce stated: "Some have concluded ·that this indicates that I am no longer the Com­m1ss10ner. :\one of my authorities (sic) have been assumed by the Deputy Com­missioner. 
"The only reason a Deputy Commis­sioner was appointed," continued Bruce, "was to supervise administrative decisions in the Bureau. Because of ~Ir. Crow's appointment, I can spend more time carrying out the administration's policies, the President's policies, and spending more time working for Indian people." 
The new deputy commissioner denied that one of his first actions in his new post was the issuing of an " ultimatum" to BIA water law attorney William H. Veeder, who had charged that Crow threatened to fire him if he refused to accept a transfer from Washington, D.C. to Phoenix, Ariz. 
"There was no ultimatum.. .. If he won't accept reassignment, I'll have to talk with him some more. '' Veeder would not be fired , said Crow. 
Responding to the accusation of Sen. J ohn V. Tunney, D-Calif. , that Veeder was being shipped away from the Washington scene, CrO\v said: "I don't agree that this is what we are trying to accomplish at all. .. 
Veeder had come under fire for discussing publicly what he termed "the absolute obligation of the Bureau of Indian Affairs to protect Indian rights and its failure to do so." Crow told newsmen that Veeder had not yet communicated to him a decision to resign rather than accept trans­fer. 
Veeder later disclosed the text of a 

memorandum to Crow, dated four days 
before the press briefing, in which he 
stated his decision to reject the pending 
transfer. "On Friday, August 6, you had 
called me to your office,,. the memo read. 
"Our conversation can be summed up in this ultimatum you gave me: You are transferred to Phoenix to work on the Central Arizona Project; your papers are being cut; you are not to be allowed to work in \'Vashington within the parameter (sic) I have been given in this job; you accept this transfer or be fired. 
"I reject your ultimatum. Having thoroughly checked this matter, I know the 'parameter' of your ultimatum to me ­the precise word 'ultimatum' was used in your firing threat -was prescribed by 
Assistant Secretary of the Interior Loesch. 
"Your firing ultimatum has implicit in it that in some manner I am guilty of wrongdoing. Proof of that wrongdoing in a full hearing is your burden." 
The Veeder incident prompted strong opposition and demands for Crow's resignation from a number of Indian leaders. 
In other matters: 

-Crow said he wanted to "beef up the resource end of the Bureau'' to protect Indian water rights and other resources. 
" It hasn· t been f uncled and has been forced to compete with more glamorous programs such as education," Crow said. "The resource end of the Bureau has gotten the short end of the stick. We will ask for more money." -l:fruce ·expressed his desire that the BIA be allowed to develop its own legal arm. " We definitely could protect Indian water rights better with our own legal arm," Bruce stated. 
-Crow opposed the separation of the BIA from the Interior Department. 
" Indians have always related to Interior," Crow stated. "Although there are built-in conflicts, splitting up isn't the solution." Of the removal of Indian health care from the Bureau, Crow said, " I think it would have been better if it had not been split, but practicalities dictated it." 
Crow noted that he is unaware of any proposal to make the Indian Commis­sioner a separate cabinet officer. " I don't think we have the support for that," Bruce stated. " How about making the Commis­sioner an elected official?" 
-BIA Education Director James Hawkins, called into the briefing to handle questions related to education, was questioned whether he favored pending legislation to increase appropriations for Indian education and to remove adminis­trative responsibility from the Bureau. 
H awkins indicated opposition to the 
proposed legislation, stating that Indian 
education should remain subordinate to 
the BIA. Executive order would have the 
same desired effects of the bills, he added, 
although that action would not increase 
appropriations. 
" I have recommended the executive 
order route to the Commissioner," said 
H awkins. 
-Crow denied that the Office of ~lanagement and Budget and the Govern­ment Accounting Office had d . 
review tribal contracts becau ecid 
0
tion to BIA contracting p e1. .f op
0 
1c1e r
members of Congress. 11 'They are concerned that th 
. . . ere ar c~en~1:s in som_e _contracts, and, if th s1gmf1cant d~f1c1encies, that the\' ~ rected. It 1s not real!,· I) ·. 
. . ,, C , etau 
oppos1t10n, row said. Crow ~ontracting '_'a go~d indication of I involvement in Indian affairs." The biggest problem with cont 
. . ract1
f f. 
that o inancing 1nd1an tribe • h
e t 
Federal procurement regulation . 
pro
the Bureau from providing d f uncling for tribal contracts. a (In effect, this means that a tribe
.d ca 
contract to prov1 ~ ~e:vices unle -it eno~gh money to 1mt1ate ser\'ice· and continue to support these service· until federal government make payment.) 
-Bruce stated that the Bureau "ready and willing" to provide ervi urban Indians, but does not yet ha authority to do so. 
"We have made no recommendati n the Secretary of the Interior, but if gress appropriates the money and i the authority, we are ready to handl Bruce said. 
Both Bruce and Crow indicate that Bureau intends to provide financial a ance to Navajo Community Colle other institutions of higher learn Again, they cited funding limitation a problem in this area. 
-Bruce said he was not compl satisfied with the Alaska ;\; ative claims bill which was reported out of House Indian Affairs Subcommitt August 3, 1971. T he bill would pro 1 settlement of 40 million acres of land $925 million to Alaska Natives. 
Bruce cited his strong feeling for land an Indian as the reason for his oppo I to the land figure in the House bill. ·:. million acres of land is not enough Bruce. He added that Ala ka , 'a should get more, but that he wasn ·1 ce exactly how much more. 
Crow discussed the pending land cl settlement, saying that he believed a ment would come this year. 
Asked whether the Bureau ' 
1
provide technical assistance to · Natives in order to aid in plannin management of settlement proceed new deputy commissioner said the B would almost certainly -ee supplemental appropriation for purpose if the bill passes this year. 
(Continued on page 13) 




New Attorneys .. . George Crossland 
B, Richard La Course 
1111, ncan Indian Pre.rs As.rnczalwn 
·ndeed is George Cross­
,c o •aae I . d' 

;i _ . and executive irector 
i' ,1norne) d 

_· . \ merican Legal Defense an · .ui,ef: d (~ALDEF) recently 
llli1 un 

1 htd here. k 
gh-minded and outspo en 

na1 \. lOU . l h d i~tellcctual and a cra?g1 ,: a~ ­1 \I -·ne Crossland in his m1d­
1 -,lll ' D 1 . J 
· . • ed what Vine e aria, r.
h,1 1otn . ,, --b'ittlef1eld of tomorrow ­

IkeI 11cI , . l ,octl cadre of Indian lawyers
OJI ll l)ll ( . 1 fl' .1.· urning an expanding ro e as 
•·1t1·(•• ,111 d architects of contem­

rt 111 u ' n Indian affairs. . . . 111 find them establishmg indepen­
1 <, · 'b 1
firm s, representing tn a 

1 , 1 ·tifying before Co_n~n~ss, ruin!.!; the Indian Bureau,. J0l_mng _ ,kr,d national Indian orgamzat10ns, i 1111~ in the write-ups of tribal and I iu11on,tl policies. And they know 
ol th·, ·peak. , . . \I.DLF under Crossland s d1rect10n in!!; ,1 ·uit brought by the ational 111 \ outh Council against lnter­1111.1111 thool in Brigham City, Utah, 
I .1 prO\ iding; a legal monitor to the 1 ti \ ri1ona Water Project and to I h 111d hou ·ing sen ices for Indians in 1t1e of Dalla ·. Demer and Chicago. I, homan Crossland never experi­1 the e,1 ,. life. Born in Hominy, he drop,ped out of school after the 
1 °1 ,tel' and "bummed around two Ill th' oil fields, followed the wheat t ,rnd \\'Orked on ranches." After 
an..: ·it!;ht \'ears in the C .S. ~larine >. I · r ·t i,ed a bachelor's degree in 1 h ,rnd philwophy at the University 
I 1hom,1. \ \'ith a Woodrow \,\:ilson \\ hip. he entered Berkeley and 
1 
cl I hi) in English. I 196 h \\'Orked for the Indian 
1111 ( ·ommi · ·ion and became interested 11 ' entered the University of l.1,, Thool and graduated this 
Jun· '' ith ,l degree. On ,\ugust 12 he
1 
·cl >: .\ LDEF's executive director. ljl >l~l 1 th brainchild of Americans 
1 
<li 111 )pportunit\' (.\IO), the La Il.111i ~roup, though ~ALDEF 1 ind 'P ndenth· from ,\IO. Lind h,1 · hard,\\'ords for the Indian 
1 

" \\ ,I hin~ton politics and the1 11• I bu ·111 • . · 
e t<>mmuntty, and he has a 

singular!y clear vision of the perils and promise of the common Indian future. 
Crossland shows little sympathy for the Bureau and its problems. "Who is Bruce?" he asked. "A man easily over­ridden, basically a New Yark dairy farmer. We don't need someone who is creating golden options for us. We_ ~eed someone who is persistent about realities. The needs of the people should define the role of the man. We need a Socrates, a man for all seasons, one whose talents are defined by one day and another." 
Of the internal Bureau struggles, Cross­land said: " The entire interests of a whole subcontinent cannot be met by assigning commissioners and underlings -that's not a response to the whole trustee obli­gation. Judge them by the methods they employ. All the changes of recent days were a fait accompli before the new team was notified. They used secretive, under­handed maneuvers, and the secrecy itself belies their sincerity. Let the new team make their own mistakes in the Bureau. Bruce should reassert his command." 
Crossland views the most crucial ele­
ment in the future of Indian communities 
as the degree of unity which can be 
achieved. That unity, he said, will emerge 
only by " doing adequate homework" on 
politics and public political i~sues and a_n 
aggressive willingness to mampulate poli­
ticians. 
"The gradual erosion of Indian culture 
is always at stake,'' said Crossland, "and 
the challenge is sophistication. Indians are 
no longer completely on the defensive. 
Among the tribes now there's an approach 
to sophisticated awareness. I don't say it's 
been achieved, but we are witnessing the 
birth of the ability to conceptualize issu~s 
in such a way that they can be resolved in 
our favor. 
"The fundamental basic change just 
ahead is that the tribes are looking at poli­
ticians and determining what's in that 
official's self-interest. This method detects 
the dishonorable and discredited about 
politicians in Indian country, but they're 
dealing with politicians. Look at 
Lockheed. The government probably 
could sue them for bad management. How 
Lockheed succeeded was to convince some 
politicians that it was in their own best 
self-interest to bail them out." 
Crossland calls the national budget a 
" political thing" and urges pressure on the 
managers of the budget for ln~ian 
interests. ''The budget is a political thing, 
a political pie," said Crossland, "and_ if 
Indians want to survive, that's the way it's 
clone here in Washington.'' He feels 
(Continued to page 76) 
5 
WHEN IT RAINS, IT. 

Interior Secretary Rogers C. B. Morton amended the now-famous memo describing the authority of the position of deputy com­missioner in the Indian Bureau as major Indian leaders from around the country pressed him for a top-level meeting. 
The second memo, dated August 6, revises the original memo ofJuly 26 in two articles. Rather than "appointing" experts and consultants for BIA work, the deputy comm1ss10ner now "recommends the appointment of" those personnel. The other amendment to the original document is one which restores to the Indian Com­m1ss1oner the power to redelegate authorities, which henceforward he will share with his deputy. 
Interior Department officials told members of the press that the original memo had contained a "typographical error" after the reduction in Indian Com­missioner Louis R. Bruce's power became widely known. Later examination of the original memo revealed no such error. 
Meanwhile, both the National Congress of American Indians (NCAI) and the new National Tribal Chairmen's Association (NTCA) requested by letter a m~eti~g with Morton to discuss personnel shifts in the Bureau and the implementation of the administration's announced policy of Indian self-determination for the tribes. 
~1orton is currently working out of a month-long temporary lnteric::ir Depart­ment headquarters in Denver, Colo., and will return to Washington at the beginning of September. 
UNRECOGNIZED INDIANS 
East Coast Indians are planning to form an Eastern Seaboard Coalition of Native Americans, with membership open to federal and non-federal tribes, historic Indian communities not recognized by the government, and Eastern ur?~n groups stretching from Maine to L9u1s1an~. At _a preliminary meeting in Boston earlier this month, a core group set the formation of the coalition in September at a three-day conference tentatively scheduled in Boston. On the agenda: examination of the legal status of the projected "open membership" and the prospects of state and feder~l programs of assistance. St. Regis Nl ohawk, Seneca, Lumbee and Passamaquoddy representatives were among the planning group. 
WILLIAM H. VEEDER 




Cfhe FeederIncident 
"Making promises that can't be kept-raising hopes that can't be real­ized-are the cruelest hoaxes that can be perpetrated on a minorit_v group that has suffered fro m such tactics for a hundred vears. " --RICHARD M . N IXOX, 7964 
By Richard La Course 
American Indian Pre.I".\" AI.rnciatwn 

A massive public outcry from tribes, tribal attorneys and congressmen has fol­lowed the projected dismantling and demotion of the BIA's present economic development team here. 
From the Colorado River to Capitol Hill, letters and telegrams of protest have asked the ~ixon administration to reverse the transfer of water rights authority William H. · Veeder and hydrologist Phillip Corke. 
Further, the flood of communiques charges the administration with failure to consult Indian wishes concerning adminis­trators over them and failure to imple­ment the highly touted ~ixon Doctrine of self-determination for the tribes. 
The impact of the transfers in Indian country was that of a severe blow with a delayed reaction. 
In the eye of the storm stands William 

H. Veeder, 60, a noted and experienced lawyer who enjoys a unique constituency of loyalty throughout Indian country for his long-standing defense of Indian water rights nationwide. For years a lone and in­frequently heard voice within the labyrinth of Interior, Veeder together with Leon Cook and hydrologist Phillip Corke shifted into high gear under Indian Commissioner Louis R. Bruce in alerting the tribes to the peril of their water rights and assisted in their defense. 
It was Veeder who originated the con­cept of a "trust counsel authority" to elim­inate the multiple-client conflicts of interest within the Interior Department over Indian resource rights, and the White House incorporated the concept into its innovative package of Indian legislation now before Congress. 
But, says the vVhite House, Veeder is now "too controversial, .. "a Ralph i\ader­type, '' and the net effect is a brushoff of an Indian ally. The White House supports the concept but not the conceiver. 
ln public statements, Deputy Commis­sioner J ohn 0. Crow took the fire over Veeder's transfer (he alone now within the Bureau-not Bruce-has the power to re­delegate authorities), but the order for transfer came from the office of Harrison Loesch, assistant Interior secretary of the Bureau of Land :\lanagement. 
Loesch admitted to a White House aide that he was responsible for ordering the Veeder transfer. In a .\linneapolis news­paper interview a few days previous, Loesch had stung Veeder by labeling him a "complete bigot," "unreasonable," "in­subordinate," and stating that he ought to be fired. (Loesch on a Southwest trip a year ago had told friends of his desire to get rid of the controversial Veeder.) 
Loesch's exceptionable language­_peculiar at best coming from a lawyer and a high government official-provoked Veeder into public statements of defense in the press. 
"I don't know what kind of vendetta he's running," said Veeder, "and I don't give a damn. I don't have to get into vendettas-I know my business." 
(Sen. Henry M . J ackson, D-Wash., meanwhile, in a unique hand-carried message to Loesch, pressed Loesch to re­consider the order for transfer. J ackson holds the ace in the deck as chairman of the powerful Interior and Insular Affairs Sub­committee in the Senate.) 
Loesch is a friend and long-time political associate of fellow Coloradoan William Freeman, who was recently named economic development director in the Bureau, thus becoming supervisor and overseer to Leon Cook, Veeder and Corke. Veeder and Corke have been in the em­battled Bureau since the mid-1 960s. Cook joined Bruce's "new team" in 1970. 
Veeder has been a thorn in Interior's side since he arrived there over the issue of Indian water rights. Recently, Veeder called Interior's Westwide plan-a 10­year water-use study for eleven Western states-a "planned catastrophe for Indian peoples." " It (Westwide) is the ultimate step in taking from Indians their own water in water-short areas," said Veeder. 
'T he non-Indian is planning the Indian community out of existence," he said. " Indian water is the only water left to allo­cate, and limitations on Indian use are necessary for the future development of non-Indian proiects. Th
J . . . e pol"1 
powerful overwhelm the pol·t-


I Kai 1 
potent, and you see water and p 1.• 
. 1 ,, 0 Ill 
very exp1os1ve y. The transfer limits the levera current1y enJ . oys, because-ggeiv 
·b·1· en
enormous .acce:s• 11ty of data and co m r:1 u n I c_a t 1 on . am Ong f d ~gen~1es-h1s working ability would impaired. Yloreover, it would ell eliminate his ability to assist tribe 0 the Phoenix jurisdiction, whe pending transfer deposits him. Th t fer is a condition unacceptable both t and Indian friends in other part nation who have relied on his a i t crucial water struggles. 
The Colorado River Tribes in th western corner of Arizona, mean telegrammed both the White Hou Veeder requesting the pending tran cancelled. Ironically, that tribal a tion would benefit most with the p ment of Veeder in the Phoenix Area under whose jurisdiction they live. 

Veeder uniquely enjoys the tandi "friend first, then advocate" throu Indian country. That friendship despite over 200 years of very well-fo distrust on the part of Indians toward Indian federal officials. 
" If anyone comes to Indian coun help the Indians," said a Bureau a of Veeder, "sooner or later they cut down. That's the way it is, and that way it's always been." 

Veeder has practiced law since I? has devoted himself almost exclu 1 water law since 1937 when h employed by the Colorado State ·ot in the Department of Agriculture. I~ I he was employed as an attorney 18 Justice Department, and in t949 appointed special assistant to t~e. Attorney General, again c?ncentrat: the field of water law pertinent toB country. He came on board at the in 196.S and subsequently became ' known in the Indian world for d crucial resource losses and proridin legal counsel throughout many tat has practiced before the Supreme0. and is a member of the Bar of the of Columbia. 
(Continued next page) 

....11,t1,lllt1ll l0111 '. 1n . 
, 11 diet k 1· d past, the Bureau not lully \\'arrant its public 
11t·,11-trirninal monolith em­,, hitc to in ure the death of 1 I ropl ' . . \ fact habitually over-
h11 \, ithin the Bureau today are 1 1du.tl of normous conscience 
r ote: ,\ \ e go into another lndi.rn no ide, we find our 
•r Indian right on the head 
I k \\' an help ~Ir. William 1 hdp u' a Indians. d I h.t de\·oted his life work 
u c h_i incumbent upon the 
• Jll lo unit b hind ~Ir. Veeder. 
r hould 0 et the axe for hit­1 I nc, in h I . 
. t ntenor Depart-nu ht all f el another piece of 
rl t rnhroil d in a battle for all 
11
~d \h up to us a Indians to c.ounted. Apathy in this h P rp tuate a stigma in 
\, II b 
. . e accu ed of contrib­
11
111• Li here will serve the 
7 

FIRST INDIAN 
Reprieve 

MORTGAGE
Mr. William H. Veeder has received a short reprieve. On September 17, 1971, 
COMPANY

the Interior Department had consented to a hearing. The context of the statement is: The first mortgage company owned and operated by Indians has been formed. The
'The Department has accepted for re­
American Indian Mortgage and Financial 
view and decision Mr. Veeder's grievance 
Services Corporation will function as a
concerning his transfer to Phoenix. Until 
correspondent of existing lending in­
such time as a departmental decision is 
stitutions in order to attract private sources
made, the proposed trans] er is suspended. " 
of capital for reservation development. For T his reprieve might well be a reprieve. 
the first time conventional lenders will be 
It is up to the Indians across the nation to developing projeets on reservations. 
take up the fight in Veeder's behalf. 
Executive Vice President is William J. Mungary, formerly UIDA's Financial Boost For Trust Counsel Authority Analyst. Orville Hood, formerly Housing 
Stung by charges from tribes and tribal Specialist for UIDA's Relocation Assist­attorneys that it was taking sides in a war ance Program is Vice President-Trea­of personalities and loyalties within In­surer. Ronald L. Esquerra is President. terior and the BIA over water and other The Company is located at 4210 North Indian resource rights, the White House Brown Avenue, Scottsdale, Arizona. diagnosed the problem as "institutional UIDA extends congratulations and best clashes" arising from inherent conflicts of wishes to this new company. interest among agencies. Result was the White House is pressing for immediate White man cheat Indian once -White congressional attention to the trust counsel man's fault. White man che~t Indian twice authority bill in the Nixon Indian package. -Indian's fault. 
~"~~~..,.,~------­
SIX OR MORE 
--l 

CONSTITUTES RIOT
I

"Riots and unlawful assembly" were hospital facility will be referred to the formally prohibited on the Rosebud Sioux Tribal Health and Safety Board. Reservation by the addition of a special Two Hawk said the new chapter in the chapter to the tribal constitution here code would not allow " personal head August 16 by a unanimous tribal council hunts" and that future inspections or vote. It marked the first time since the tribe evaluations of the hospital would have to was organized in 193.S under the Wheeler­go through the health board. 
Howard . Reorganization Act that the The new chapter defines a riot as "any council felt such a section must be included use of force or violence or any threat to use in its criminal code. force or violence, if accompanied by im­mediate power of execution by six ( 6) or
Several councilmen said on the council more persons acting together and without
floor that the new chapter would take care authority of law." Any Indian taking part
of unlawful disturbances, apparently refer­in a riot is subject to at least three months
ring to a reported threat of Indian militant in j ail but not more than six. 
action at the upcoming Rosebud Fair and Any Indian taking part in unlawful
a so-called " disturbance" at the Rosebud assembly may be sentenced to labor for not
Public Health Service Hospital a week more than three days or a fine of not more previous. Recently rumors have circulated than $100, or both with costs. 
around the Rosebud Sioux Reservation Other sections in the new chapter set upthat the militant American Indian ~love­penalties for Indians who refuse to aid an ment (Al~l) would stage some type of officer in making an arrest,. who refuse todemonstration at the Rosebud Fair. 
help to disperse other Indians unlawfullyThese rumors continued to grow as assembled or " riotously gathered. " The Lehman Brightman of Native Americans new chapter has yet to be approved by theUnited (NAU) of Berkeley, Calif., toured Bureau of Indian Affairs. 
the reservation hospital, took pictures and Under Article 10, Section 1, thereceived information about its operations. 
Rosebud tribal constitution has this section A NAU publication, The Warpath , in in a " Bill of Rights" : its latest edition attacked Tribal Chairman 
"All members of the tribe and all 
Webster Two Hawk as " the outstanding 
Indians on the reservation shall enjoy 
male apple of the year." 
without hinderance freedom of reli­It was also reported at the council that gion, speech, press, assembly, con­in the future similar " inspections" of the science and association." 



Conquest of Aboriginal Lands ... Part VIII 
TECUMSEH And the War of 1812 
In 1802 Tecumseh preached his message to the Indians of Vermont and :\lassachu­setts. In 1804 he was in :\linnesota preach­ing to the Sioux. Everywhere he traveled, he carried the same message, and when he left, he was assured of tribal support when the signal came due. 
In 180.5 he and his brother established what was perhaps the first Indian Center. Near what is now Fort Greenwich, the two Shawnee leaders established an area that was to be Indian, Not Shawnee ... where all Indians may be welcome as bro­thers, rather than as members of a particu­lar tribe. It was a communion of brothers rather than a gathering of the tribes! 
Tecumseh was now the recognized and established leader of the Indians. The Confederation had been born, and its power was recognized by the leader of the 
U.S. :\lilitary establishment in the area, Henry Harrison, newly elected governor of the newly declared state of Indiana. 
Governor Harrison, wishing to mock and ridicule the Indian Christ, contacted the Delawares and urged them to ask Tecumseh for a sign of his powers. The Indian Christ pointed out that he could foretell what could happen. Tecumseh told the doubting Delawares "fifty days from now, at high noon, the sky would darken. " When the "miracle" of the eclipse oc­curred as foretold, Tecumseh truly became the Indian Christ, and Harrison was scorned by the Indian ·ation. 
By 1808 Tecumseh was in full command, and a meeting with Governor Harrison was arranged. The Indian Chief guaranteed peace provided the United States did not make more treaties involving land cessions. Harrison, considering the omnipotent Indian Chief a mere scoundrel, dismissed the Chief's terms as preposterous. 
A year later the two leaders again met. Tecumseh contended that no particular tribe owned land; and that Indians held land in common for all tribes. And most imperative, no Indians, including chiefs, had the authority to sell or give away land, unless fully counseled by all the Indians in­volved. Neither H arrison or Tecumseh could reach agreement, and the pmnvow ended in discord. 
In August of 1810 another meeting was held, and \,·as just as fruitless as the otliers. The Indian leader stated to Governor Harrison: "\Vhere at last you drive the 
By Rudy Jay Casazza 

Indians into the Great Lakes, where they can't either stand or walk . . . " The Shawnee Chief warned: "We shall have 
great council, at which all the tribes shall be represented, and we shall show to those (Indians) who sold lands that they had no authority to claim such lands, we shall see what shall be done to those Chiefs who sold you lands," he emphasized, adding: "I am not alone in this determmation; it is the determination of the people I represent ... I tell you ... because I am the head of them all! ... if you do not restore the land, you will have a hand in killing them ..." Harrison's reply was insulting as usual. The followers of Tecumseh emerged to fight, but were restrained by the omnipo­tent Chief. Another meeting in July of the next year ended in much the same way. 
In Autumn of 1811, Tecumseh was in the south addressing the councils of the Cherokees, Seminoles, Choctaws, and Chickasaws. Meanwhile, Governor Harrison was by no means unconcerned. In an intended, well-planned, premedi­tated campaign, did, with 1,000 men attack in a cowardly manner, the Tippe­canoe village of the Shawnee ... an act he "forgot" to report to the President. 
Before leaving Tippecanoe, Tecumseh had warned his followers not to fight at any cost. At last the fulfillment of his Indian Confederation actually existed and the time for forceful councils with the 
U.S. Government was almost at hand. 
Cunning!y, Henry Harrison left Vincennes on September 26, 1811 , and with a well-formulated campaign, cow­ardly plotted to attack Tippercanoe and annihilate the Indians at a time when the warriors were away from the village. He moved directly up the Wabash, delaying long enough to build a fort ...which he named after himself, Fort Harrison. The fort is presently the site of Terre Haute. On the night of November 6th, 1811, he encamped on Tippecanoe Creek and read­ied his sneak attack. 
That very night the Prophet sent a con­tingent of three to Harrison to negotiate a treaty for peace, and it was mutually expressed that the terms would be agreed upon the next morning. But having know­ledge of a promised immunity against the white man's bullets the following morning, the Prophet led an attack, and then fled the battlefield. Harrison, wisely and immedi­ately dispatched a m .. 
. h e en r

wit reports of an oven ·h I


L ' em,

at~r, ~ontro\,ersy aro e canoe mc1dent. Harri 011 h d won. He onh: avoide 1
' c rout 

pulsed the Indian , but he h 1t necessary to retreat • 
< llllffi 

important fact, howe\ er· , 
. '<I t 

ans ?1d. not win an O\ en, h 1 and. m its act, ruined the Ind erat1on on the eve of it birth had ruined in one day wh t I taken a decade to build. 
Tecumseh arrived lour d fatal battle of Tippe<, 11 turned to his brother, fallen 1 and shook the Prophet umil hi to bleed, remarkin~ that d good, too easy for uch , I Prophet was drummed out oft was declared no long;er to I and for all intended pur Shawnee, he existed no Ion r 
It is estimated that ht·t\\ Indians were killed in the h ttl recorded that Harri on lo t had 127 wounded. . ·o In captured. \Vith the ex.igger reality, as only the whitem,m was little more than an inrnn at a small segment of followers, was exaggerated mt victory over Tecum ·eh. 
The fictit10us, dram, lie Harrison never fulh < u ht actual facts of the battle. Chief WilS not slain in th men. 

The White House used the pretext of the darkened lighthouse on Alcatraz as a " maritime safety hazard" to evict the Indian community while the adminis­tration itself, according to the Coast Guard, ordered the cutoff of electricity to the island a year ago. 
T he White House claimed further that Indians were shooting at Coast Guard vessels which were repairing buoys in the bay and that nothing approaching real " negotiations" had ever been undertaken with the Alcatraz community, which it labeled a "sideshow of urban Indians.,. 
"You don't think ;\avaho Chairman Peter ~IacDonald cares one iota about Alcatraz?'' asked minority affairs special assistant Bradley Patterson. "We've acted with the utmost restraint fo r well over a year. Trespass is trespass, and if you found some wild strangers on your front lawn you'd call the police, and that's what we did." 
Legal support for the White House position appears to be a letter by former Attorney General Ramsey Clark saying Alcatraz should not be given to the Indians because it "does not qualify as available public land ." 
T he White House serves both Indian communities and the American public poorly when it conveys mistaken stereo­
(Continued on Page 76) 


J.W. 

"I DON'T KNOW WHO HE IS. . BUT HE'S GOT A BIG MOUTH! ! " 
THE NATION'S URBAN CENTER 
FOR TNAs 
By Wa Wo Ya Ka (Dakota) 
Los Angeles has been described as the nation's urban center for Indians and was chosen for a government experiment. The experiment, and such it 'truly is, is in­tended to find ways to provide better ser­vices for the ever-growing number of TN A's (Indians) living within the big cities. The office of Economic Opportunity has a warded grants totaling more than $880,000.00 to establish a network of model service centers for T As in Los 
Angeles, ~linneapolis, Gallup, and Fair­banks. A central coordinator's office will be established in ew York City to pro­vide research and technical assistance. 
The above data is very interesting to the bulk of the American public but let's look at some of the details. 
That office in New York City; how in the name of the Bearded Buffalo can some bespectacled white-eye in such a crowded anthill help the T A? He has no knowl­edge of the mental processes of a T A. True, the whites have developed a social system that is effective for them but where does the knowledge for TNA problems come from? In every case, the white mind is attemµting to adjust an Indian mind to accept totally the pattern of his own in­cluding the gross mental and physical defi­ciencies inherent within the white city dweller. Wa-wo-ya-ka says, "Give the job to people best suited to do the job. Give the TNA the chance to show the ability that has kept the American Indian from extinc­tion for the last two-hundred years. Locate the center in an area best suited for learn­ing and directing the Indian." 
'RED FLAK' 
First Lady Pat ~ixon ran into some red flak in ~linneapolis as she made a swing around the country officially turning over federal properties to various cities in a Legac_v ofParks program. The gentle first Lady turned over 2,937 acres of the famed· Fon Custer .\lilitary Reservation to Battle Creek, .\lich. In .\linneapolis, .-\ 1.\1 people at the city's Fort Snelling ceremony held signs aloft reading ··l\o .\lore Legal Theft," ··Another Treaty Violation,., "Another Tricky Dick Land Theft,·· and "This ls Indian Land -Honor the 188.3 Treaty." A total of 4,200 acres of surplus land worth $10.5 million was ceded to cities on Mrs. Nixon's three­day tour. 
SOME THOUGHTS ABOUT THE GREAT AMERICAN BISON 


.\lost .-\mericans think of the :\orth .-\merican bison as a "Buffalo" which, of course, he is not. This great shaggy beast has been aptly called the "Supermarket of the Plains.. which, to the Indians of that area at least, he was -and at discount prices, too. 
Imagine, in one great big furry economy package the Plains Indian was able to get his fresh meat, and meat he would pre­sen·e for winter, his glue (which he made from the hoof and horn) his tools, weapons and toys (which he made from the bone and sinew) his shelter, leather goods and, finally, his fuel for fire for which he used the Buffalo chips. 
By Robert Andrew Meigs 
So advantageous was the misnamed bison to the Indian of the plains that whole tribes of hunters followed him around the West adjusting their entire culture to buffalo hunting on horses. It is no coinci­dence that the demise of the buffalo came about the same time as the last of the Plains Indians were subdued and im­pounded. 
Once, the gigantic buffalo herds contained hundreds of thousands of animals and it has been estimated that at the beginning of the 1800s there were over 1S million buffalo on the Western Plains. In I883, Sitting Bull led his people on the last buffalo hunt of the American West 


and killed the last remnant of \ once known as the great , . . 'h 
. ,, 01 t 11crn 
But it was not the India 
. d h l\.' { 11 t1l,H
minate t e 1, orth America11 1 . 
< )I on 
The end of the trail f 
01 \rn 
second-most endangered spe . , · 
. h I d. UC th
being t e n 1ans themselve ·) 1 , 
f. h' h )Coc1n
the irst w 1te unters realiLe 1 1
,. C t 1,11 male b1son was a most de!' . 
. d'bl d' , 1t1ou
Bemg e 1 e 1dn t help the '< . 
· · ' l\\ ,Ill
somewhat limited their !if e ex 
. J)l'll,l!well as future buff a lo Son1e l1L 
. lllll'r 
that the animal had a tasty to111,
; --,lit• ( 
buffalo were killed only for their ton 
There were also the casual 11,I\ el the soldiers who delighted in hootrn poor ~umb beas~s just for the plt-.1 watching them kick and die. P,1 rn the Kansas Pacific Railroad \\ ould from the train at random ju 't to kill thing. The bison was their ~ um! r victim. 
There were, of course, the meat-bu for the railroad gangs and then th hunters who were paid '3.~0 ptr until they flooded the market ,111d paid only ~ 1.00 per skin. B, Iu ~ great slaughter completely "·iped ou Southern Herd and five year· later th of the Northern Herd vanished Iron face of the American West. 
That the senseless slaucrhter Indian's livelihood provoked \\'ar \\ 11 Comanches and other tribes \\ ,1. ol concern to the hide hunters and their k The lives of innocent settler nothing to them, not starving Indians. 

That the extermination or the bu was official government polin i f well established. The C.S. .\ rnn destroyed horses and cattle belongin the Indians rather than take them 01 them to roam wild. In such a m,1nn the C nited States fight a people ckp n upon a single animal and in ° d 
111

almost completely wiped out ,111 the buffrdo. Well the Great Amer
ican bi on h 
turned. ' I-le has so outdone repopulation, in fact, that \,·hereJ once a Supermarket, no\,· he i Buffalo jerky is sold 
· ff I

and now surplus bu a o are groups of people for food ..\ r1cl .\"~'n but the Indians? ,\h, \\'ell, such 1 can progress. At least the po 
· · ·c1
longer playing the flip sr head nickel. 
1 1 


DON'T BUS MY CHILD 
By Archie Blacksmith 

They are all crying; "Do not bus my child." 
" I will not allow my child to be bused to a ,~trange neighborhood. It's against the law. 
Now take a look at what they (the BIA) have been doing to the American In­dians for the past years. 
They have been taking little children from their mothers and hauling them to a place called " Indian Boarding Schools" disregarding the integration laws. Yet all the while they were yelling, "Not with my child", so here we go ... 
The world is learning a little about why the Indian can roll with a punch; just go ahead and do what they are forced to do and learn to live with any situation given him and always come out tall and proud. 
...... 

Guard your tongue in youth and in age you may mature a thought that will be of service to your people. 
-Sioux 

1s <mother step 
, 111111dc. 1 m I,() tribe · from all the I in 1ttcndance..\II Indians 
m,1,. members of, ·c:.\I are nd \lember ·hip is granted 
I to! .. 
nd ~.ime and a Pow \\'ow t the 11 <da affair at Reno's n 1011 ( : ·11ter. 
EOPLE IN HE NEWS 
r I <) 1k' or.\ lcatraz fame was <I., (ind l'ined :::, 125 after d ll\ tln all-\\'hite jury at 
hf.. lor tr sµass in the take­

.,, Klfilr•·1 nn 
1 ' Blue. Lum bee, \\ as unani­
1 
' 1 t hairman for the 1972 '>llll Conference. Blue is t Indian Claims Commis-

INDIAN TIMES 
A chronology of the various eras of Indian experience from those days before Christopher Columbus to the present might go something like this: The Era of Good Feeling (up to 1492); the Era of the Long Death (1492-1890), ending with the Wounded Knee ~lassacre; the Allotment Era (1890-1934 ), a " get-their-land" move; the Assimilation Era (1934-1953), a "whitewash" period ; the Termination Era ( 1953-197 1 ), the urbanization and land­loss period; and, now, the first glim­merings of the Sovereignty Era (beginning 
I 971 ). 
CRAFTSMAN 
John Bear ~ledicine, Blackfoot, whose reputation in dra\\'ing, painting and wood­carving is nationwide, is the focus of a special one-man exhibition of figurines at the ~luseum of the Plains Indian in Browning, ~lont. Some of his works are enshrined at the Smithsonian Institution. Bear ~ledicine, a "full blood" born in 1896 , has fashioned figurines of the Black­foot Grass Dance and hoop dancers, medicine men, women dancers and mounted warriors. 
Constitutional Revisions and Amendments  Election of Delegates and Officers  
Pioneer Inn Convention Auditorium Reno, Nevada November 14 through 20, 1971  

Tribal Hand Games Convention Is Final Day Pow Wow Open to Public 
-----THEART OF STORY-TELLING----­
Perhaps no other people enjoy good stories better, and are more apt at telling them, than are the Indians. This art, most highly prized in a race without books, serves as a necessary outlet to their imaginations, and wonderfully enlivens their social and family life. The time for telling Indian stories is in the evening ­best of all, around a glowing wood fire, on the long nights of winter. Here, every accent, every gesture, has its meaning, no faintest shade of which is lost upon the circle of attentive listeners. 
True stories of warfare and the chase are related many times over by actors and eyewitnesses, that no detail may be for­gotten. Handed down from generation to generation, these tales gradually take on the proportions of heroic myth and legend. They blossom into poetry and chivalry, 
and are alive with mystery and magic. The pictures are vivid, and drawn with few but masterly strokes. Often animals as well as men are the villains and heroes, and in this way a grotesque humor is artfully yet nat­urally developed. 
In the old days, it was customary among us for each clan to have its official story­teller, whose skill in making the most of his material had built up a reputation which might extend even to neighboring villages. He was not only an entertainer in demand at all social gatherings, but an honored schoolmaster to the village chil­dren. The great secret of his success was his ability to portray a character or a sit­uation truthfully, yet with just a touch of humorous or dramatic exaggeration. The scene is clearly visualized; the action moves quickly, with successive events lead­ing up to the climax, which must be han-. died with much dignity and seriousness, or pathos and gravity may be turned upside down in the unexpectedness of the catastrophe. 
Here is a short example of Indian story­telling: 
Far out in the middle of the "Bad Lands," upon the Little ~lissouri, there stands a pillar-like butte some four or five hundred paces in height. Here and there upon its sheer walls cling a few stunted pines and cedars, some hanging by one foot, others by their great toe on! y. Not one of the many gulches that furrow its sides affords a safe path, or even a tolerable lad­der to the top. There is generally a pair of eagles who breed there, and an occasional Rocky ::\fountain sheep may be seen springing along its terraces. We Indians have long regarded this butte as a sacred temple, the very spot for solitary prayer and fasting; but tradition states that only two men have ever set foot upon its summit for this purpose. 
(R epnnted f rom Indian Scout Talks by Dr. Charles A. Eastman) 
Feared-by-the-Bear was a warrior of unquestioned bravery. One day he an­nounced that he would fast upon Cloud Butte. Thereupon other well-known braves decided to fast there also. Their leader managed the ascent with much labor and difficulty. When, just at sunset, he reached the summit, he was happy; the world seemed revealed to him in all its beauty and majesty. " Where can such another shrine be found ?" he thought. 
He took his position upon a narrow pro­jection of rock extending over the abyss, where it is said no human being has stood before or since. The full moon had risen and the brave stood above that silvered gulf of air with uplifted filled pipe and ex­tended arm, praying without words, as is our custom. 
Suddenly his ears rang with the cry: " Haya Hay! A grizzly! A grizzly!" He was compelled to suspend his devotions for an instant, and to throw a glance in the di­rection of the call. He perceived that his example had been followed, and that what seemed an avenging spirit was pursuing his fellow worshipper. 
"Dodge behind a tree! Run your best; he is almost upon you! " he shouted. But the nearest tree hung upon the verge of the precipice. If the man missed his footing, he must go down to death. 
There was no time to consider. Around the tree he flew and disappeared like a passing shadow. At his heels the desperate grizzly, who had prolonged his unwilling fast upon the butte for days, not daring to attempt the descent, lunged heavily against the swaying cedar to save himself from falling headlong. He was half a second too late! 
Feared-by-the-Bear had not yet been discovered. He clutched his long pipe and still pointed it toward the starry sky in si­lent supplication. Indeed, he had now more immediate cause for prayer. "Waugh! " uttered the hungry bear, and approached him with wide-open mouth. 
The dizzy shelf on which the brave stood had been an eagle's nest for ages, but was just now unoccupied. Old M ato, the bear, seemed reluctant to advance, for on either side the sheer rock descended to a great distance. The warrior merely turned toward him the filled pipe which he had been offering to the " Great :\il ystery. " 
"To your spirit, 0 Bear! I offer this peace pipe, the same I have just offered to the ::\laker of us both. Will you partake of it, and commission me to be as brave and strong as yourself?" Thus speaking, and without showing any nervousness, he pointed the long stem of the pipe directly at the bear, upon which :dato growled un-
THE JUDGE I MUSEUM PIE 
In Los Angeles, .\ linirip I 
J. Nebron asked (ha) 11 .\m n to write a 5,000-word c. ·ay n civil disobedience. Thi.·. a to disturbances in and around west ?vluseum. It wa · meant t 11 Indians and make them tha men think. 
T he "good" Judgc ·hould into the real issue behind th 
museum. It i another in list of events of th ,\merilan I disregarding and e\'ading_ mo I 
The real issue i the lal t 1 Native American (lndian) i extinct. Nor is Indian n rl tur 
In thi time of smoa and about the fact that 'ndi epitome of ecologi t · ·1he, the land or the animal· a
nd ' 
The Indians had a plale . ·e 110 rn nt
everyone. Tl1ere \\ er prisons, rape or ince·t. 
The "good" Juclac l:ould use some of the lnd 'ann tained a natural balance ~, and the land on which thcy h 
Whites a indi\·iclu·1l: or 
. 11>out t 
not study an d kno\, ' Indian and not realize th~t 
· de ·1ltn
the only mistake in •. 
ot cotn
dO 11
whose values 
whites. 




oRAL LEGAL? 
I DIAN D10 SHOW 
L t ,1• Cxc( utire Director of m, ited b,· radio station KLAC 1 ,, eek!\' radio program on , n11 of interest to the Los 
h ii ilitation program under way 111 ( .,ililornia. ·, Le t 'r reports that the re­
1t t n , ·n· nthusiastic for· the ht h.1 been surprised at the I ttc1 'nt to L1IDA encourag­
r u l' of radio and television u h prngr,tr11 ·. m ,e1, unday morning at 6:45 \C -o on \ our A:\I dial. 
Bruce . .. 



Yakima Claim goes to Mitchell 
U.S. Attorney General J ohn Mitchell will shortly be writing a legal opinion on whether the Yakimas should be restored their 21,000 acres granted them by treaty but for the past 60 years under Forest Service control. His opinion, according to Indian lawyers here, will probably not address itself to the "moral issue" of the land, which is intimately entwined with Yakima tribal religion. The " moral issue" is expected to be addressed by President Nixon himself, should Mitchell hand down a negative opinion. 

:-····································-····-··············1
I OHLONE TERRITORY 1 
i NOW AND 
If you should walk these hills, let your eyes wander to the north as you move along. You will see San Francisco Bay. Climb to the crown of Diablo and look south to San Juan Bautista, over to Monterey. Follow the coastline to Santa Cruz, Half Moon Bay, San Francisco and back to the very ground you stand on... 
This is OHLONE TERRITORY. 
This area you have just covered belongs to the Ohlones, now and forever. Thousands upon thousands of Ohlones have walked this land since the Mother Earth first walked and talked. These well­mannered and gentle people lived a well organized life along the shores and hillsides in total peace. 
We gave birth to our children, lived and died in our own way. Yes, we spoke of a Supreme Being. 
Permanent villages and burial sites were to be found by the scores. We taught our young our culture, ceremonies and tribal history. 
Acorns, seeds were gathered and stored, fish speared, ducks and pigeons snared, jackrabbits, fox, deer, bear, mountain lion, seals and other game were killed for food and clothing. We ate fish from the many creeks and streams found in the land. Our jewelry and trappings were made from shells and materials found in the area. 
Our homes were made of tule, bark and timber. Villages consisted of 25 to 50, to 100 or more Ohlones. 
A large structure, round in shape, was the Ceremonial House. The walls were below ground level, of the earth itself, the roof above the ground level, coming to a point at the top with an opening for ven­tilation. Some of these ·buildings held within its walls as many as 100 persons. This being true of the Ceremonial House near Pleasanton. 
And for hundreds of years, this land was at peace, then it all came to a halt. T he strangers arrived. They were made welcome by the Ohlones, and almost 
13 



FUND DEPLETED 

The Maple Creek Willie Fund, so named for a California Indian who before his death in 1937 received land and willed the proceeds for the education of needy Indian students, is out of money now. The fund had assisted nearly 100 students who will now be without assistance. Con­tributors may send donations or inquiries to the fund in Sacramento, Calif. 

FOREVER I 
immediately the Ohlones were paid back with stealings, killings and nearly being destroyed by these strange people. 
Diseases brought by the whites took their toll of life; for measles, mumps, flu and chicken pox and many more diseases were unknown in this Land. 
And then the worst ... faces appeared in search of gold ... the infamous Forty­niners. They used trickery to relieve the Ohlone of his land, or anything else he· had, including his life, the lives of his wife and children. Both were taken freely by the white, who even went so far as to place a bounty on the Ohlone. 
And so ... about 1904, it was thought that the last surviving Ohlone had passed into history, and for almost 60 years anthropologists, teachers, historians thought we were extinct. Much to their surprise We are still here! But still some say, "there is no living Ohlone today." ... 
We do not understand, perhaps we are spirits, but we breathe, eat, sleep, and we live; we died, we laughed, we loved and we cried. 
We have done our share for the United States during World Wars I and II, Korea and now Vietnam. Some of the .Ohlones rest in the long sleep beneath strange skies across the oceans, you see, we are real. 
We are proud of our heritage, we are not bitter even though we have the right to be, but we do have determination. The exploitation of the Ohlone is finished . 
We are no longer ignorant of the laws of this government, the same· laws which stripped us of everything. 
We have never received a reservation, we also realize that this may never happen, but this is no longer a deterent. We will be here to the end of time. We have learned to be patient, we will collect on the debt. 
And at the last count, 214· Ohlones are alive today, living in this, OUR LAND .. . the land that walks and talks. 
Philip Galvan, an Ohlone 


National Indian Youth Condemns Administration Policy
,c 
OnJ uly 8, 1970, President ~ixon issued his long awaited policy statement on Indian affairs. It was the strongest endorsement for Indian self-determination that Indians have yet received from any admi nistration. 
The President's message stated, "The first Americans -the Indians -are the most deprived and most isolated minority group in our nation . .. . The time has come to break decisively with the past and to create the conditions for a new era in which the Indian future is determined by Indian acts and In.dian decisions." 
After a brief ascendancy of young innovative Indian people to positions of responsibility in the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) the spirit and letter of the President's message has been syste­matically undermined by the Department of Interior. 
~ ow the process is complete with the appointment of Wilma Victor as Special Assistant for Indian Affairs of Secretary of Interior Rogers :\lorton. ow with her appointment of John Crow to Deputy Commissioner of the BIA with dictatorial powers over internal BIA operations. 
American Indian Press A.r.rnciation 

Indian peo ple have experienced a tragedy on the magnitude of the Sand Creek :\t1assacre. Commissioner Bruce has been ill-treated and abused and stripped of his powers. It is disgraceful. 
The powers in the Department of Interior are charged with the exploitation of natural resources for the benefit of the public good, the largest bureau in the Interior, the BIA is charged with the pro­tection of Indian natural resources. There has always been a conflict of interest. Now the Interior has stripped the BIA of what­ever possibility it ever had for advocacy for us to protect what is ours. 
~ ow the top people in the Interior are touring the West to celebrate their victory. Mr. .\lorton, Secretary of Interior, Mr. Loesch, Under Secretary of Imerior, Y1iss Victor, Special Assistant, and ~fr. Victor will visit the Gallup Cerem nial in de­fiance of the Indian opinion to demonstrate that the old attitudes have returned. This petty band of old line, back-stabbing bureaucrats are using the rhetoric of the President's yfessage while desecrating and trampling upon it. 
The following actions taken by the Interior regarding Indian affairs will 

be tolerated by the 7,000 member ne r National Indian Youth Council n s ~f tht chapters nationwide. or It 
I -The appointment of Wilm \"· to a position of "Queen" of India a ·\ •ct is an affront of the first magnitud n ·/~ai superintendent of the Inter~-\ hil Indian School she presided 0 ;e~ntain 
systematic destruction of thousa d t Navajo youth. She authorized\ 0 
nd

cuffing of students, beatings, destru ·t· a · 
. I d . c ion o

N av2qo _cu ture, an rn general fostered demeaning and paternalistic educat· 
h . . ion on 
t e student. All this 1s now the subje . f $16,000,000 lawsuit on the part ~[ ~h 
students and Indian employees at h school. The BIA in Washington initi;II accepted all the charges. Yet .\liss \"iuo was promoted. 
II -.\1iss Victor secured the appoim. ment of John Crow as Deputy Cammi . sioner. He actually runs the BIA for her He has withdrawn the authority of th young activist people such as Sand,· ~I Nabb, Lee Cook, and Ernie St~ven 
(Continued on Page 17) 

@;>.A~ (uJ,~-RwsJ.,,., 
c=-: /~MSLa/,-a-1I 


Tale of a Blackfoot 
By Smoky Silent Fox (Dakota) 
John Gobert, a 29-year-old Blackfoot TNA has found his niche. Despite the loss of his left leg in Vietnam, John has gone on to perform one of the most admirable acts of brotherhood and assistance for his lesser fortunate brothers. 
The 29-year-old Blackfoot TNA was born and raised on an Indian reservation near Browning, Montana. He joined the 
U.S. Navy in 1960 and served two tours of duty in Vietnam. On his second tour,John suffered the loss of his left leg but the husky and good-natured TNA didn't let that stop him. 
After taking nearly 10 months to recover and during that time, learning to walk, J ohn Gobert returned to civilian life. 
In 1 969, John took a pioneering assign­ment with the U.S. Indian Health Service in Arizona. His job was to bring medical care and public health programs to 300 Havasupai Indians living in virtual isola­tion some 2,400 feet below the rim of the Grand Canyon. 
Hurriedly taking courses from the U.S. Public Health Service in Phoenix Arizona, 
~ " -" 
Tecumseh ... 

(Continued from page 8) 
New Madrid was destroyed . . . the " Fa­ther of the Waters" , the Mississippi River, turned and flowed backwards! The earth­quake lasted two days. The atmosphere was aflame with choking dust. A second quake struck on January 23, 1812, and a third hit four days later. 
T he fourth and worst quake came on February 13, lasting only an hour, but doing more damage than all the other three combined. And as if in an era of The One Who Was Crucified, it was too late; the storm had come. Many who had deserted the Indian Christ reconsidered, for this was indeed strong medicine; but it was too late. T ippecanoe had broken the Indian Indian Confederation. The Prophet be­came the Judas of his Nation. 
Within two years the Indian Christ was dead. At least four Americans claimed the " honor" of killing him at the battle of Thames on October 5, 1813. Yet no Indians were captured, and no matter how hard Henry Harrison and his men looked, the body of Tecumseh could not be found; it had vanished from its grave! T he Indians lost their greatest leader: Tecumseh, the Indian Christ. The Whites, had won the West . .. but it was only momentarily! ... 
(Next issue, Squanto) 

John garnered all he could on health and medical care. Upon completion of his health and medical courses, John made his way down 0ver the steep cliffs of the Grand Canyon to spend the next 18 months offering what medical help he could give to the Supai. He arranged to have the most seriousIy ill removed to the nearest town -some 80 miles distance by helicopter. 
Now here is the good part: As a result of his services and success, the U.S. Public Health Service has, with John's help, organized a program of training TNAs to bring medical services to some of the most isolated tribes in the western part of the nation. 
John Gobert is helping to coordinate the training and placement of 10 new TNA medics. He has also been named the year's Outstanding Disabled American Veteran by the 350,000-member Disabled Ameri­can Veterans. 
In addition to operating a medical clinic and public health programs, John Gobert has spent many hours in Supai traveling the treacherous cliff trails on horseback to make house calls. 
John Gobert won the confidence of the villagers which is a real accomplishment when you consider the Havasupai are not really willing to trust anyone from the out­side world. Little wonder the Supai are unwilling to accept outsiders when the history of the Havasupai shows no founda­tion for such a trust. John modestly dis­counts any difficulties in achieving accep­tance by the Suapi. 
" I could have had two heads and three arms on one side as long as I could look after their health," he stated. 
"At the clinic we had a lot of injuries and upper respiratory infections," he stated. " Thes~ were a big responsibilities but you don't really think about it when you are doing it. " 
John Gobert is accompanied by his wife Vermae Evelyn and their 2-year-old daughter, Shelly. 
The " Fox" really admires and does salute you, John Gobert, TNA for what you are and what you are doing. 
REAL DOE 
Melvin Belli, noted San Francisco attorney, reportedly has a new Indian girl friend. "She came into the office, thinking I might be interested in helping the Indians," said Belli in a Herb Caen column. "And after I looked at her, I was. She's dark, has limpid eyes, and looks like a doe at the salt licks ..." 

. and then he asked what effect the President's policy on "wage freeze" is having on us, Ha, ha . .. 
Suppression ... 
(Continued from Page 9) 
types of the mindless wild Indian to serve its own do-nothing policy on Indian interest in newly surplussed federal lands. 
Instead, these lands are being trans­ferred now to commercial and industrial firms, state and county governments, and the needs of the Native American are given !1ttle 11 any consideration to speak ol. The nervousne~s of this administration over surplus land is apparerrt to all who know where to look, but those _jitters are based not on conscience but economics. 
Perhaps the policy too will win support as long as it is based on the circulation of cheap and mindless stereotypes of the ''hapless Indian ." But this, too, we doubt. Indian people themselves know the truth, and will deal with it. 
" We're not going to quit ," said Alcatraz leader John Trudell. "We're talking about our right to live, our right to be people, and this is how they respond. It shows that their attitude toward us has not changed. They're trying to intimidate us but we're not going to be intimidated. " 
\Vhat the administration is blind to is that what Alcatraz was all about was merely the traditional tribal concerns cast in a new age. 
It was no child's adventure in "Pan­Indianism." Rather, it was an intertribal 

· experience forged under the pressures of the late twentieth century, from which emerged the most common classical ties of the '.\'ative Americans on this continent: a fellow-feeling for the earth, the primacy of spirit, the Indian sense of "we" rather than " I,'· and an insistence on the centrality of the religious life. 
~lost of all, Alcatraz was a cry from the heart concerning the right to be -to be oneself in the way one must, in one's own well defined world free from harassment and the imposed criminal ignorance of others. 
Historically, Alcatraz was uninhabited before the thrust of European colonialism. But today it has been hallowed with death and birth. The tiny daughter of Alcatraz activist Richard Oakes fell from a stairwell to her death on a steel prison bannister. There, too, the cry of ne,,· life sprang from Wovoka, son of.Joh~ Trudell. 
First death, then birth. In that uni\·ersal exchange among children we may yet find a clue to the future. 
Promises, Promises, Promises 
Two female 111e~1l:cr• House Youth Ad,·i. . 0n 
. on Bo 
rhetoric of the :\'ixon _ .. 
· · <le11111"1
promising than it. per(· .
"Th. . . or lll<tn 
. is administration doing what it should · ' u 
. -or
Indian affairs •· . . 
. ' di(1 
Thomasine Hill 14 h . r 
d. · -· ( , 1r
l 
n 1an caucus at the \ . 
. . prr1
Conference on \ outh in l· 
h. h . t 
w 1c the rnuth ach·i ·on
I . · l ounc. 
~t~rv1ewed by :·\lP.\ ,,·ith. Ii Chippewa Bernice Oelorrn 
1
In~ ian board deleg;ate. E. ~ 1llar? _of the . \la ka Hu 1 Co,1::m1ss1on_, wa not pre em 
. fhe mam question i . 10 will the admini tration z r recomme ndation · and 
1 seriously?" said ~li · Delo Indian people are exi tin m mist. Where's the ni e;ht and d Of over =>:>0 reco mmendau the administration at the E t in April, 42 separate item·,, administration action. ·aid These recommendation principally Indian educ,ttion relief from poverty, drug educ t draft exemption and rnltur I dence. The .June gathering of I>< here was devoted to the form t mittees and creation of futur additional meeting · in .\ ue;u t and April of next year. ~Ii H for the fund-raising committ Delorme selected the d projects committee. . " The mo ney spent durrn Vietnam is equivalent to 30 \ the U.S. has allocated for Ind said ~l iss Hill. "I can feel m much. On my resen ·ation Cr have seen yo ung kid brou ht 1 who die of malnutrition. Hur I hope. T hose of the rnung " tained their Indianne · hould something for their people.·· 
01CE 
dernns . • • 

••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••1 7 
o ri 


djrom Page 14)
1,nue 
o, ·h hel ped draw up the 
I \\ 0 1· d
pr .·a e have been pena 1ze >le . Wh)· is it that Mr. 
1111<1 t IL . h
,11rn "'i. Bruce is running t e 
Jltll >J. 
·ou hout the years Mr.1hi f the BIA has advocated 
kr o k 
-·uhts now under attac 
,, 1cr 11 . ha stood alone against
ior and the es1gns on 
Inter . 
• 1L. of land developers, 0 1 1 
I 11g1 M 
nd water de:elopers. . r. ·orki·ng with all Indians 
I ·t n " . 
• ~ ow he has been 
1
j ll' [IOI · ' . 
\Ir row to Phoenix where he 
• . t lu j\·ely with the Central Pr 1 1 ,ind nothing else. He_ must 1hi i · a tremendous victory h ·",wt to nullify Indian ,~at~r ho,, where the Interior s 
\\ ithoul water, Indian well­' 111 ulwrc, and Indian progress 
Victor and Mr. 



You are the sixth one here -and on the Rosebud Reservation, S. D., you are a "riot" Indian 
longer beg, we can no longer request, we and M iss Victor. We have also asked can no longer beseech; we must demand Commissioner Bruce for a private meet­the following: ing. If these meetings are not forthcoming 
1.-The removal of J ohn Crow as we will see to it through our members and Deputy Commissioner and return of affiliates that these people cannot travel control of the BIA to Commissioner Bruce the country to Indian communities without and those he appointed to help him im­meeting an organized protest. We will not plement the President's Message, permit a few petty self-seeking political 
2.-That William Veeder be retained hacks to play with the destiny of our poor and that travel restrictions on him be people by subverting the President's removed, Message. 
3.-That the petty restrictions on We have sought peaceful means of contracts between the BIA and Indian changing the situation for our poor people tribes be lifted. because the channels of communication 
4.-That Wilma Victor be constrained were open. Now that they are closed we from intervening in the operation of the have no choice but to seek other means. BIA. If necessary we are willing to spend all 
Seven thousand Indian young people by our time, energies, and money to correct this press release say no to what is going this situation. T he present situation is on. We have asked for an immediate meet­intolerable and under no circumstances ing with M isters Morton, Loesch, Crow will we let it stand. 
that we can no 

WIGWAM EVENINGS-First Evening 
THE BUFFALO AND THE FIELD MOUSE 

.Editor_'s Note: This ls the first of a series of el'e­nzng _stones. Each _story has a moral. Credit ls gll'en to \_\ 1g\1·a111 E\e111ngs by Charles A. Eastman and Elazne Goodale Eastman. 
T he cold December moon is just show­ing above the tree tops, pointi~g a white finger here and there at the clustered tee­pees of the Sioux, while opposite their winter camp on the lake shore a lone!y, wooded island is spread like a black buffalo robe between the white, snow covered ice and the dull gray sky. 
All by itself at the further end of the 

village stands the teepee of Smoky Day, 
the old storyteller, the schoolmaster of 
the woods. The paths that lead to this 
low brown wigwam are well beaten; 

deep, narrow trails, like sheep paths, in 
the hard frozen snow. 
Tonight a generous fire of logs gives 
both warmth and light inside the teepee, 

and t~e old man is calmIy filling his long, 
red pipe for the smoke of meditation 
when the voices and footsteps of several 
c~ildren are distinct! y heard through the 
stillness of the winter night. 
The door flap is raised, and the nine­
year-old Tanagela, the Hummingbird, 

slips in first, with her roguish black eyes 
and her shy smile. 
"Grandmother, we have come to hear 
a story," she murmurs. " I have brought 
you a sundried buffalo tongue, grand­
mother! '' 
One by one the little people of the vil­
lage follow here, and all seat themselves 

on the ground around the central fire 
until the circle is well filled. Then the old 
man lays down his pipe, clears his throat 

on:e or twice and begins in a serious 
v01ce: 
"These old stories for which you ask 
teach us the way of life, my grand­
children. The Great-Grandfather of all 
made us all; therefore we are brothers. 
" In many of the stories the people have 

a common language, which now the 
Great ~1 ystery has taken away from us, 
and has put a barrier between us and 
them, so that we can no longer converse 
together and understand the speech of the 

animal people. 
"Observe, further, that silence is 

greater than speech. T his is why we 
honor the animals, who are more silent 
than man, and we reverence the trees and 
rocks, where the Great ~1 ystery lives un­
disturbed, in a peace that 1s ne-ver 
broken. 
"Let no one ask a question until the 
story is finished.'' 
Once upon a time, when the Field Mouse was out gathering wild beans for th'e winter, his neighbor, the Buffalo, came down to graze in the meadow. This the little ~louse did not like, for he knew that the other would mow down all the long grass with his prickly tongue, and there would be no place in which to hide. He made up his mind to offer battle like a man. 
"Ho, Friend Buffalo, I challenge you to a fight! " he exclaimed in a small, squeaking voice. 
The Buffalo paid no attention, no doubt thinking it only ajoke. The Mouse angrily repeated the challenge, and still his enemy went on quietly grazing. Then the little ~louse laughed with contempt as he offered his defiance. The Buffalo at last looked at him and replied carelessly: 
"You had better keep still, little one, or I shall come over there and step on you, and there will be nothing left! " 
"You can't do it! " replied the Mouse. 
" I tell you to keep still," insisted the Buffalo, who was getting angry. " If you speak to me again, I shall certain!y come and put an end to you!" 
" I dare you to do it! " said the Mouse, provoking him. 
Thereupon the other rushed upon him. He trampled the grass clumsily and tore up the earth with his front hoofs. When he had ended, he looked for the Mouse, but he could not see him any­where. 
" I told you I would step on you, and there would be nothing left! " he mut­tered. 
Just then he felt a scratching inside his right ear. He shook his head as hard as he could, and twitched his ears back and forth. The gnawing went deeper and deeper until he was half wild with the pain. He pawed with his hoofs and tore up the sod-with his horns. Bellowing madly, he ran as fast as he could, first straight forward and then in circles, but at last he stopped and stood trembling. Then the Mouse jumped out of his ear, and said: " Will you own now that I am master?" 
"No!" bellowed the Buffalo, and 
again he started toward the Mouse, as if 
to trample him under his feet. The little 
fe llow was nowhere to be seen, but in a 
minute the Buffalo felt him in the other 
ear. Once more he became wild with 
pain, and ran here and there over the 
prairie, at times leaping high in the air. 
At last he fell to the ground and lay quite 
still. T he ~louse came out of his ear, and 
stood proudly upon his dead body. 
" Eho! " said he, " I have killed the 
greatest of all beasts. This will show to 
all that I am master! " 

_Standing upon the body of th Buffalo, he called loudly for a k -~ d
ad which to dress his game. ni e' ih 
In another part of the mead 
O\\'
Fox, very hungry, was hunting .' 
his breakfast. He saw one and ~lice t upon him with all four feet, but th~lll­
Mouse got away, and he was d 
disappointed. readfuU All at once he thought he h distant call: " Bring a knife' Be~rd knife! " · nn 
When the second call came R d 
started in the direction of the 'so e d 0 
the first knoll he stopped and l~n
b . . 1 ten 
ut hearing nothing more, he wa abo Ito ?o back. _Just then ~e heard the clit plainly, but in a very thin voice "B · 
·r , " R d F . , nn 
knll_e. e ox immediately et Out agam and ran as fast as he could. 
By and by he came upon the hue;e bod of the Buffalo lying upon the e;rou d The little Mouse still stood upon : body. 
"I want you to dress this Buffalo i 
me and I will give you some of them at 
commanded the Mouse. 
"Thank you, my friend, I shall be I 
to do this for you," he replied, polite! . 
The Fox dressed the Buffalo, while t 
Mouse sat upon a mound near bv. I 
ing on and giving his orders. "Y~u m 
cut the meat into small pieces," he aid t 
the Fox. When the Fox had finished 
work, the Mouse paid him with a 
piece of liver. He swallowed it qui 
and smacked his lips. 
"Please, may I have another pie 
he asked quite humbly. 
"Why, I gave you a very lar~e pi 
How greedy you are!" exclaimed 
Mouse. " You may have some or 
blood clots," he sneered. So the poor 
took the blood clots and even licked 
the grass. He was really very hung;ry. 
"Please may I take home a piece or 
meat?" he begged. " I have six little fo 
at home, and there is nothing for them 
eat. " 
"You can take the four feet or 
Buffalo. That ought to be enoue;h for 
ofyou! " 
"Hi, hi! Thank you, thank you!' 
the Fox. " But, ~fouse, I have a wife 
and we have had bad luck in hunt 
We are almost starved. Can't you 
me a little more?" 
" Wh ·," declared the M ouse, ··I 
already overpaid you for the little 
you have done. However, you can 
the head, too! " 
Thereupon the Fox jumped upon 
~louse, who gave one fa int squea 
disappeared. 
If you are proud and selfish you lose all in the end. 
19 

INDIANS ARE
~l)IAN SMARTS 
POPULAR 
By Smokey Silent Fox

By Nab Doe Wee 

lh, 1d plunked his posterior lu ol I l',lrth and deep grass. ,, 11 h1111 elf and the fish was t honor and he must take 
nn r ,,I ,di lndian huntsmen rd :· Lone quiet. His activ~ h pond fo1 a d ue to success 
1 hll r Ii h ,l · well as the inner dcl ph di turbed tomach. n lo tir ,lround him as he sat studying. Suddenly a small green frog, escaping a hunting raccoon, arched in a long leap into the beaver pond. The frog landed on the water with a slight plop and was instantly gone in a silvery swirl of violently disturbed water. That pesky pike had seen the frog jump and instant!y re­

acted. 

Buffalo ·s Beard's eyes opened with a bursting flash of cunning. He wasn't licked by any means. He allowed the fish had sort 
of counted coup on him but the victor was now prepared to take action. 
The mighty hunter, Buffalo·s Beard, vaulted into action. He caught several frogs and slipped them into his catch-bag. Next the clever man twisted several ,\"icked and multi-spiked thorns from the trunk of nearby thorn trees. Selecting a long and tough length of Buffalo gut sinew the hungry man sat down to invent. 
To each frog, Buffalo's Beard secured a thorn; one spear of the thorn cluster was thrust through the lo,\·er jaw of the frog and then the frog was tied to the thorn with gut. 
Buffalo's Beard placed the frog and thorn on a piece ot tree bark and placed the bark on the water. Giving the bark a gentle thrust, he was pleased to note the bark drift to the very spot on the pond where the fish had taken the first frog. He gave the gut sinew a sharp jerk dislodging the frog from the bark. The frog began to swim and the fish struck again. Buffalo's Beard caught his meal. 
The system worked. 
There must have been many failures due 
to the sharp fish teeth cutting the sine,\· but 
that system is still used to catch the elusive 
northern pike. That was another of the 
many tricks taught to Nah Doe Wee by the 
Chosa family of northern ~l innesota. 
Now that is Indian Smarts. 
"Indian Count Increased in 1970 Census'' -so states an official release from the Federal Census Bureau. The bureau counted 791 ,839 American Indians in the nation in 1970, a jump of more than .SO percent over the official 1960 count. 
The reasons for the large increase in number of American Indians, which inci­dentally compares to a rise in total U .S. population of only 13.3 percent are in changed classification procedures within the census bureaus, and what is even more important, an increased pride among In­dians. 
Prior to the 1970 census count, a person needed a minimum of 2.S percent Indian blood to qualify as an American Indian under census bureau rules. ~ow, however, anyone who calls himself an Indian can be so counted. 
Thus, a census bureau spokesman stated, "the burgeoning redpower move­ment may have so reduced the stigma attached to being an Indian that fewer persons of Indian blood try to hide the fact." 
The census bureau spokesman hurried to state these figures are strictly pre­liminary and subject to later revisions and "more than half of the American Indians live in but five states including 91,018 In­dians living in California." 
The "Fox" thinks it ·s time to understand the True :\ative American, Indian, if you wish, Reel Power and other slogans will be ,\·ith us for an important but short time. We, as Reclmen (white label) are not fa cling a,\·ay as so many had thought. We are here to stay. T here never has been a better opportunity to improve our stance in the American society. Get back of our leaders. See to it that their efforts are well founded and cautiously guided. Support your own publications. Be the True i\ative American. 
SUBSCRIPTION DONATION FORM 
thed is my subscription donation of Five Dollars ($5.00). Please 
• next twelve issues of IND/AN VOICE to: 
----------STATE------ZIP---­P.O. BOX 2033
Indian Voic 

SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 

CLASSIFIED ADS 

JOURNALIST-EDUCATOR willing to travel as education liaison 60 to 70 percent of working time for the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Salary to be determined on qualifications. Interested parties send resume to Vincent Lovett, Education Prog_rams Office, 1931 Constitution Ave., Washington, D. C. 20242. 
DI_RECTOR of college Special Services Project. \_1in1mum of. '.\l. A. degree _prefera~ly in Social S1ences or equivalent \\'Ori< exp1erence !n. community de\·elopment and educauon and sens1t1v1t\· to needs of lo\,·-inrnme stud_ents. Salary ~p to $12,000. In­terested parties 11-r1te J ohn \\ . Kalas, Bacone Col­lege. Bacone, Okla. 74420. Or call: (918) 683-2921, Estension 36 or 37. 
DIRECTOR of :\ati\·e :\merican Studies Program. Salan· negotiable, ma1· entail partial teaching load as 1\'ell as directorship of uni\·ersit\' studies center. Substantial current fndian studen·t enrollment of :\orth1,·est trjbe_s. I nteres_ted persons 1,-rit~ Ron T. Halfmoon. :\au1·e :\mencan Studies, 2 lJ College .-\\enue. \\·ashington State Lni1·ersit1·. Pullman, \\ ash. 99 I 63. OreaII : (:i09) 333-8676. · 

TODA Y'S IDENTITY. WITH DIGNITY 
The Indian of today seeks identity. The identity with dignity in a society of changing mores. It is impossible to go back to the days of the teepee and the buffalo hunt; lest each of us would prefer to live at " Walden Pond" with Thoreau. It is also as impossible to live at Walden Pond. 
To be Indian is to live Indian ... this is a dilemma that most people have not fully realized as a matter of true fact. One must wear the ''mocassins '' of an Indian to under­stand. 
We prefer to remain Indian with the real­ization that what is here is here to stay. There is no changing of this fact. 
Discrimination is a basic drive in any race. The criterion and the degree of discrimina­tion are the standards we seek to limit. 
By Dean Peters Sauk and Fox 


809S6 
e,u.101!1e:> 1ee4:>!w.1e:, 8£ l!W.18d P!ed e6eJS0d ·s· n eieu >11ne 
'lVIll'.U .VW m1ivn 3:fl'lV A 3:WU 

• • ZtH16
,------. 

VO OOSIONVHJC NYS VMor·os 6[z

{~;~ 
VJUUUIXXlf:r 
() , 
_v't.,·• ,x,m OS10 
~ '· 
armror ~ aHVJrorH 
H'0~6 VINllOill'lV:) 'V!IV'I:) v.LNVS 
3~1.01 uut.P'I 

££OZ XOH "O"d JI 









