
FEBRUARY 1972 America's All-Indian ,Magazine VOLUME 2 NO. 1 



RISES ONCE MORE 



THE BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS may yet rise to a point where it desen respect of man. 

The low point was reached when Richard Nixon was elected pr At that point, the officials in Interior were looking for a replaceme 1 Robert L. Bennett, an Onieda Indian lawyer who had quit as Commien the previous summer when his plans for reform did not get the backin needed from the Johnson administration's Interior team. g
!~~re was~ big 9ue~tion in Indi~n count~y for some months abou poss1b1hty of Nixon fmdmg a Republican Indian, and several jokes alx mad~ the ro:1nds. But finally he found Loui_s R. Bruce, an unassuming publican dauy farmer from New York, who 1s also traceably Indian. 
Bruce proceeded to make the usual wishy-washy stance on what thei were, and to talk about reform. But in the summer of 1971 he put togethrr youngest team of subordinates seen in the Bureau for some time, perhap and 10 of the 17 new people who came in at the end of the summer Indian. 
And not only were they Indian, they had in several cases been im, in local or state Indian organizations; none of them was a career bureau as has been the case with the top echelons in the Bureau for decades. r, were from urban areas, and this provided the perfect excuse for the old-Ii under them to undermine them with the reservation people. 
Within a year most of them had quit or had been moved within the Bur In the meantime, Bruce had proceeded with reform of the Bureau on a scale, in pursuance of Nixon's "Indian speech" of July 1971, which prom an end to arbitrary termination of federal services, and more power in tr government by the tribes themselves. 
Bruce's "new team" reached its personal low point with the resigna of Lee Cook this past fall. Cook had been one of the most energetic and I erful members of the team, and when he resigned he seemed to put a dan on the Bureau in general by stating that he was forced to resign becau could not rely on the honor of Louis Bruce. 
Perhaps because of this in large part, Bruce soon took an action 11 put his own position on the line. Earlier in the year the old-liners had ceeded in putting the damper on Bruce's mild reforms by having John Cr an old hard-lining bureaucrat, installed in the Bureau as Deputy Corn sioner, and Crow temporarily had more power over actual policy than Bruce. (This situation soon changed following attacks from Indian k,1 all over the country on the changes in policy that followed, including an definite freeze on contracting to tribes for federal services.) . 
Interior Secretary Rogers Morton soon put Bruce back at the top_ 111 tuality. Bruce proceeded to surprise perhaps everyone involved. Followinc appointment Crow was charged with reorganizing the· Bureau, and one rt was yet another change in the power structure, under the fiction that would solve the problems. Bruce pulled his surprise during the Reno 1 ence of the National Congress of American Indians; he announced a\ meeting his choices for the slots in Crow's organizational structure (ii had been approved just before Bruce left Washington), and they wen younger people committed to the preservation of Indian land and water t end to termination, and the preservation of self-determination efforts ' dians. Bruce's real sin was, of course, moving on his own to put the pt he wanted into the jobs. He won, and is still there. 
The effect they will be able to have on the old-liners is yet to be 5r\ the Bureau's image can only move up, in the eyes of Indian people._ .e\ the Burea will gain some support from Indian people in the future, if 1~ their desires into consideration instead of running what has been an tinues to be, a basically racist organization. 

Forbes, a widely recognized In­
p. nd one of the founders of holar a 1 · f . ersity, has given us ~n ~na r~s o l n• titutional power~ o t eF eb er~ n • Indian affairs. Dr. or es is 
....ment in . A . , n
••· f The Indian m merzca s rast 
uthor O other publications about Na­
5
numerou mericans. . f h

Wilson of Pit River ame, . as OtrrY1short story in prose form which 11tt 0.: poetry and Norman Russell has 
d h e other one of his beautifully ex-
nu an ,, Th

"indian thoughts. e poems _sug­ed by Old Cherokee Songs wereM~ntte~ Robert J. Conley ofSouthwest 1ssoun 
· te College.
Thi month's cover was done by Al . 10 an Arapahoe-Cheyenne whose .~;andfather Chief Little Raven signed 
Medicine Lodge Treaty of 186?. Mr. ·ieman has worked as a commercial art-.
1 

well as a professional artist. More of a ork can be found in the center of this 
uc. 
In addition to the ~econd part of Dea~ er's "Lumbee Story" we also have, this 
onth,Ruth Dial Roberts' essay "Lumbee I ian Active." From the Tacoma, Wash­n ton ews-Tribune we have reprinted 
b Lane's article on the Fishing Rights truggle. . ine Deloria, Jr. has given us a short nicle on the passage of Resolution 26 at he 28th Annual Convention of the NCAI nd Rose Robinson has contributed her IP Investigation Report on "Politics and 
ndian Business." Richard Lacourse has ritten an interesting report on Pennsyl­ania' Indian caverns. 
In thi issue of Indian Voice we have an nterview with Secretary of the Interior's ogers Morton and a report from Timm 'illiams and Joe Carrillo on the California ural Health Project. Speaking of health, a en Hail has given us an essay on Dis-. 
and Medicine. Thi month's issue also has a feature on 

Errin Forrest, our selection for the Apple the Month. By contrast we also publish . Chaver's compilation of reports from ·lid the Minneapolis Tribune, AIP A, etc. nthe victory of Indian activists in the BIA. ~r. John D. Gillespie, a Cherokee, has ntten an interesting report on the trans­~nted Seneca-Cayugas of Oklahoma. We 0 have the latest AIP A news releases ~d R~bert Freeman cartoons. Finally, for 0 e int~rested in sign language, Wa Na 1 _has given us a series of drawings illus­rati~g the Plains Indians' form of com­
unication. 


"The wealth which we affect in Europe, such as gold, jewels, pearls and other riches, they hold of no value at all . .. ·.. and they are so liberal in giving that it is the exception when they deny you anything.,, 
VOLUME 2 FEBRUARY 1972 NUMBER 1 
EDITORIAL................................................................................................................. 2 MAIL CALL................................................................................................................. 4 
INDIAN POLITICS 

ACTIVISTS WIN AT THE BUREAU -Staff............................................................................................................. 5 POLITICS AND INDIAN BUSINESS -Rose Robinson............................................................................................ 6 TOWARD A COMMON FRONT -Vine Deloria, Jr........................................................................................... 7 
INDIAN RIGHTS 

CONSTITUTIONAL POWERS OF THE U.S. IN INDIAN AFFAIRS -Jack D . .Forbes............................................................................................ 8 FISHING RIGHTS STRUGGLE -Bob lAne...... . ... . ... . . ... . . ... . . . . ... . .. . . . ...... .. . . . . .. . . . . . ...... . . . . ... . . ... . . . . . . . .. . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 EXPLOITING DEAD INDIANS -Richard IACourse . . . . ... . .. .. . . ... . ... . . .. .. . . ... . . ... . ... . ..... . . . ... . . . . . .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . 10 
INDIAN MOVEMENT 

LUMBEES ACTIVE -Ruth Dial Roberts....................................................................................... 11 CALIFORNIA RURAL INDIAN HEALTH PROJECT -Timm Williams and Joe Carrillo................................................................. 12 
ARTICLES 

THE LUMBEE STORY-Part II -Dean Chavers.............................................................................................. 13 
INDIAN MEDICINE 

DISEASE AND MEDICINE -Raven Hail .................................................................................................. 15 
HISTORICAL 

THE SENECA-CAYUGAS, An Iroquoian Tribe of Oklahoma -John D. Gillespie......................................................................................... 16 
POETRY 

POEMS SUGGESTED BY OLD CHEROKEE SONGS -Robert J. Conley ......................................................................................... 17 
ART 

NATIVE AMERICAN ART -Al Whiteman ............................................................................................... 18 
PROSE 

CLEAR SKIES -Darryl Wilson.............................................................................................. 20 
MISCELLANEOUS 

NEWS FEATURE -American Indian Press Association............................................................. 27 THE BUREAU MUST FIND A SENSE OF MISSION -A/PA ........................................................................................................... 28 
FEATURES 

INDIAN RECIPES -Staff. ............................................................................................................ 30 APPLE OF THE MONTH -Staff. ............................................................................................................ 31 WIGWAM EVENINGS -Charles A. Eastman and Elaine Goodale Eastman ..................................... 32 COMMUNICATION -Wa-Na-Ka ................................................................................................... 33 AN INDIAN PRAYER -Translated by Rex Moore ........................................................................... 35 
IND/AN VOICE 

Mll1 mail cal-tlM·llilffifiH1--------, 
Editor: 
Your last issue of Indian Voice carried poetry by Norman H. Russell. You men­tion on page 3 that these poems were se­lected from his series "indian thoughts". I am most intrigued with his writing and wish to ask if this "indian thoughts" is a book or pamphlet which may be purchased. Can you help me with this information and from where it may be purchased as well as to what address Mr. Russell may be reached. 
I am enclosing a che€k for $5.00 as a gift to your work. I already subscribe to your publication. I realize this is not much, but perhaps it will help. hope your maga­zine will centralize the Lndian peoples into a needed unity to correct the many condi­tions which are not just in a country which seems to struggle constantly against mount­ing problems. 
Also, are back issues of your magazine available? If so, which and at what price? 
Incidently, interest in your publication and its cause was aroused by Mr. Ed Fal­kowski of Campbell. 
Thank you and best wishes for continued success. DAVID EARL M c DANIEL Saratoga, Calif. 
Thank you for the donation and encourage­
ment. Your very interesting letter has been forwarded to Mr. Russell. All previous is­sues of Indian Voice (except the first issue) 
are available at 75tt each. 
* • • • Editor: The enclosed check ·n the amount of $6.00 is for a one-year subscription for our son on his birthday, Feb. 22, 1972. I re­ceived my first copy of Indian Voice and am enjoying it very much. Sad to say, it has opened my eyes to many injustices of which I knew nothing about. It was a sorry day for me and you whm we lost our be­loved Bobby Kennedy! Good Luck to you. Peace. MRS. w. E. STONE San Francisco, Calif. 
Thank you for the encouragement and sup­port. Your son's subscription is in the mail 
and we hope he finds Indian Voice as in­formative as you have. 
Dear Sir: 
I have been informed that Indian Voice is an excellent magazin and would like a one-year subscription. I have enclosed the fee of six dollars which believe is correct. Will you please mail my opies to the above address. 
M ARY ANNE VIDNOVIC 
University of California 
Santa Cruz, Calif. 
Thank you for the compliment and the sub­scription. We hope thatlndian Voice lives up to your expectations. 


The Cold, Hard Facts 
If you were an Indian-.. ~ -Your life span would be 42 to 44 years, 21 years shorter than that of your fellow citi­zens; 
....:..Your income would be $1, 5 00, 75 per cent below the national average, and $1, 000 lower than the average black family; -You would have, on the aver­age, five years of schooling, and your probability of unem­ployment would be ten times the national average; -The suicide rate of .your teenager would be 100 times that of whites; -The odds would be 2-to-1 that your child would never finish high school and 100-to-1 that he would not graduate from college; -You would have a 400 per cent greater chance of con­tracting tuberculosis and an 800 per cent higher chance of acquiring hepatitis; -You would likely live without plumbing or bathing facilities in a two-or three-room board shack. 
New Organization Fo 
A new organization was fo the Rosebud Reservation 
S. D . called the Ecke Wi~a waza (The Original Echo Ins) 
y 
Why? The members of th;· 
Ori Echo, I?-c. felt . that an orga must anse to pmpoint probl. 
on the reservat10n such as dru hol, education, Indian Healthgs, Welfare, Law and Order, Lega1 and_ all ot_her needs the tribal ad trat10n falls to recognize. The organization was fol'llled 
Nov. 27, 1971 and chartered in Dak. on Dec. 3, 1971 and was· porated with officers of an cl member Board of Directors wi~ members. ~he officers are: Jim nette, President, Francis Wbi Vice P_resident, Belva Kaulay, tary, Sidney Eare, Treasurer. 
This organization will submit to the Indian Voice to inform I of what is happening at home. support and cooperation is needed that we may work together. You keep informed as to what is hap on your reservation. You may go home one day. 





ACTIVISTS ••
WIN AT THE

••• •• BUREAU ·•· 
port compiled _by Dea'? TCh_abvers,
0 1
f\"' I-Lids, the Mmneapo is n une, IP andprivate correspondence.) 
HINGTON, D_. C.-~ommis­
. ner of Indian Affairs, Loms Br~ce, hi hand-picked team of Indian . . trators, whom the Interior bur­
d 01
nu h "M'l' " 
u rats had dubbed t e i itants, 
apparently won the fight for con­rol of the Bureau of Indian Affairs Bl ). Although some of them see a 1 n fight ahea_d, they are rea~onably ure they can wm some concess10ns for lndi n people from the entrenched ureaucrats, whom President Nixon 
called do-nothings. The thing that is new about Indian 
dmini trators is that they had been for the most part working with local Indian organizations before they came to Wa hington, and came here to rep­
nt the grass-roots Indians. This put h m in a head-on clash with the older ureaucrats in Interior and the BIA, ho do not represent Indian i~erests, ut their own or other special interests. any of the old-line bureaucrats n tantly take positions which could interpreted as anti-Indian. Most of th mare probably not racists, but when conflict comes up in which Indians e an interest, Indians almost in­
c itably lose. 
Ernie Stevens, the new Assistant Commi sioner for Economic Develop­m nt recently told an Indian awards luncheon in Norman, Oklahoma that h new team had been successful in topping some of the losses of land and :ter rig?ts that plague practically r Indian tribe. He also pointed ut that the fight had been hard and f a not yet won, but it had to be ought if Indians were to remain to­
ther as a people. ·The appointment of the yound In­~an many of whom were urban was 
ie ed w·th 1
Th 1. a arm by the old-liners. ore ~eta_liated by having Wilma Vic­ry wr° is an old friend of the Secre­pp . 0 the Interior Rogers Morton 
01nted a hi ' 
Indian Aff _s s ~pecial. assistant for ct th airs. This was m spite of the at she had shortly before been 
Commissioner Louis R. Bruce 

removed from her job as· the Superin­tendent of the Inter-Mountain Indian School in Brigham City, Utah, because of an investigation which found that she allowed and encouraged physical and psychological punishment of the (predominantly Navajo) students. 
-Among the things she was accused of was forbidding the Navajo language to be spoken. 
Victor, who is Indian herself, has been dubbed by may of the militant In­dian organizations as the U.S.'s leading 
-"Apple" (red on the outside, but white on the inside). She promptly filled Morton's ear with the praises of John Crow, an old line bureaucrat, to take control in the BIA. When Crow was appointed to the post of deputy com­missioner under Bruce, with more power over administration and per­sonnel than Bruce, Victor paraded around the office of NCAI in Wash­ington, "crowing" about her victory. 
It was a victory for -her ·because -she is opposed to the concept of Indian self-determination which have been pushed by the young Indians. Under this concept, which in all fairness we must say had been pushed harder by the Nixon administration than by any other administration in history; Indians had been allowed to contract with the government for services -such as health, irrigation projects, economic self-help, and road-building-that have traditionally been administered by the BIA or such other agencies as the U.S .. Public Health Service and the Office of Education in HEW. And the ap­pointment of Crow, with super-power in his hands, immediately froze all pending Indian contracts. · 

IND/AN VOICE 5 

At about this time, the National Con­gress of American Indians (NCAI) was in danger of falling apart from lack of funds, guidance and leadership, a perennial problem with the organiza­tion. In an attempt to put NCAI back together again, the National Tribal Chairman's Association {NTCA) was formed, and immediately found them­selves concerned with not only the sur­vival of NCAI, but with the resurgence of the old-line policies of the Bureau and Interior. They, along with many other Indian groups and individuals, made their wishes about the future direction of the BIA known widely around Washington. 
Then in the fall, a handful of people from the American Indian Movement (AIM), perhaps the most militant and productive Indian organization in the nation, were arrested in a sit-in at the BIA. The arrests focused national at­tention on the Bureau and the tactics of the back room that were being used to circumvent Indian interests, exactly the thing that the old-liners didn't want. They seem to work best when the deals are shady, where the publicity is nil, and where they can control every In­dian with which they deal. 
As a result of the arrests, several other Indian organizations which had been formerly opposed to AIM and its tactics found themselves in strong agree­ment with AIM. This eventually led to a coalition of AIM, NCAI, and the Na­tional Indian Youth Council (NIYC), another group of Indian militant young people, under the banner of COINS, the Coalition of Organized Indians and 
· Natives. This kind of coalition could not have been put together as recently as a year ago, when many of the AIM people viewed the NCAI members as "apples," and the NCAI group viewed the AIM and NIYC groups as young, disrespectful, and misguided. When the chips were down, they all-saw that they were fighting for the same things, but going about it in separate ways: NCAI through legislation, and the militants through making the public aware of what is happening on Indian reserva­tions to Indians. 
The election of Leon (Lee) Cook ( a former member of the Bruce team who resigned because of not being able to accomplish changes in the Federal bureaucracy) as President of NCAI probably had much to do with the for­mation of the coalition as well. Cook is familiar with the urban scene and Indian young people. (See page 26) 

iNDIAN VOICE 

. POLITICS AND INDIAN BUSINESS . 
was of the utmost impo 
committee planning. The gro~p requested that representative ask Commissi 
R. Bruce, scheduled to Jenkins the next day, to fin:' OMB~ funding for Indian and this assurance was given. also requested to sit in on B ing with Jenkins to present ~ndian. front in support of B 1 m particular, of Indian inte 
What was siad at the B meeting was unknown. (The had called all participants 8 B~uce w~nted an "intimate• with J enkms and that it would to everyone else.) What did loud and clear to the other members that no action either pro or con. 
The following day, the B the committee members into to rehash essentially what discussed two days before. new development from this the first look for all commit hers-including the OMB& sentative-at the $40 million b its program breakdowns. 
Only three line items s f erred to Indian programs: o Indian business assistance pr • marked for $100,000; four based Indian business assis jects earmarked for $320,000; management training and de programs earmarked for S total of $440,000 out of $40 specifically programmed for Of · these three budget line i one for the form reservatio dian business assistance pr already been given out-and for it came form the BIA, not "This means," stated NCAlt "that out of the total $40 · OMBE has to spend in six only a paltry $120,000 is beinl for Indian programs. You kno getting the rest." 
"Looking at the entire b continued, "there is no reason dians can't have a share of an, other money, whether they live ervations or in urban areas." 
There are five broad ca community investment, priva ment, government investment, magagement development, and ment and demonstration. Some items include money for local business development ations, contractor assistanc:" minority business and trade 
($# 

.
. 
.
.
. 
WASHINGTON, D.C.-(AIPA)-In one of the first majo~ndian moves of its kind, the Nationa Congress of American Indians (N CA ) has begun steps to "take on" a federal agency in what is developing as a fight to see that Indians take part in funding for minority programs. 
That federal agency is the Office of Minority Business Enterprise (OMBE) in the Commerce Department (referred to by OMBE insiders as "Nixon's OEO Program") which has been in existence since March 6, 1969 under Executive Order 11458. 
OMBE is slated to spend a total of $40 million by June 30, 1972, and NCAI officials have thus far determined that only a small amount will be spent speci-­fically for Indian needs. 
"As a minority," said NCAI's Cleve­land R. Neiss who has been spear­heading the effort, "we damn sure feel that Indians should have their fair share-at least 10 percent-of this money." 
"We started out by being nice guys, calling and visiting (John) Jenkins, OMBE's head honcho, to find out where Indians fit into this funding," stated Neiss, "but we got no response-or 1 even any interest. We coundn't even find out how much OMBE has spent in the last two years on Indian pro­grams." 
President-Elect Leon F. Cook wrote 

to Jenkins last Dec. 16 expressing N CAI 
interest in Indian participation in the 
development of an Indian program as 
part of OMBE's program. "We recom­
mend," wrote Cook, "that OMBE form 
an Indian Advisory Committee to over­
see OMBE's Indian business develop­
ment program." He suggested the com­
mittee be made up of a small group to 
facilitate decision-making and that they 
be all Indians-one representative each 
from the Indian Bureau, 0 MBE and 
NCAI. --. Cook also suggested that the com­mittee meet monthly with OMBE to review the progress of the Indian Bus­iness Development Program and to ad­vise· OMBE on its design and the approach used to implement it. 
·.. --.,: .
. 
. 

0 MBE made no positive response to Cook's letter. "We didn't even get the courtesy of an acknowledgement," stated NCAI Executive Director Leo 
W. Vocu. · 
To gather Indian support for NCAl's efforts, Vocu sent a memorandum Dec. 28 to all member tribes explaining the Indian case and requesting them to write to OMBE supporting NCAI's request that a portion of the $40 million be provided for Indian programs. "A request for an additional $60 million is planned (by OMBE) for the coming fiscal year beginning in July," stated Vocu, "and we'd better get our foot in the door this round before that fight comes up." 
. (Thus far, six tribes and tribal groups have responded to support NCAI's ac-. tion by writing to OMBE: the Nett Lake Minnesota Chippewa, the Mis­sissippi Band of Choctaws, the Rocky Boy Chippewa-Cree, the Colorado River Tribes, the United Sioux Tribes and the Intertribal Council of Michi­gan. The United Sioux were the first to respond. In addition, Rep. James Abourezk, D-S.D., has written ex­pressing his support, as has the Univer­sity of South Dakota at Vermillion.) 
"We need all the help we can get," said Vocu, "not only for the NCAI position, but for the Indian aides at OMBE to push this." 
By the first of the year, when still no response had come from Jenkins, and with time running out before the money was divided up among other minority groups (mainly Blacks and Mexican-Americans), NCAI convened a meeting of the BIA, the National Council on Indian Opportunity and 0 MBE representatives to plan a strategy meeting. The main purpose was to gegin an immediate push for some kind of commitment form O MBE for Indian participation in the $40 million. 
With no knowledge of whether any earmarking of the funds had already been made-calls to OMBE for this information got nowhere, and even the OMBE Indian Desk personnel could not obtain it-there was a general consensus that getting t~e information 


TOWARD A COMMON FRONT 

GHAM, Wash.-(AIPA)­9EL~IN ssion has been provoked by 
u h dascu of Resolution 26, passed at 
pa sa~eg the annual convention of 
dunn f A .

no . al Congress o mencan 
auon h" 

. (NCAI) last November. Int is 
I ,an. NCAI was called upon to 
1uuon d" • 
. h three other In ian orgamza­~~ form a coalition of Indian t work for the betterment of 
~ 0 
ian people.1The resolution was long overdue. For rl a quarter. of a cen~ur~ NCAI ihe only maJor or%an~zation c~m­11 d by Indians active m 'f)ursumg 
tr e 1· · f I d.

ore constructive po icies or n ian le As such the NCAI has to as­: ~any tasks. It had to watch le~is­
tion work with the Bur~au of Indian 
irs, attempt to provide programs nd inspiration for young people, and ork with the various groups of urban 
Indian around the country._ . . The major weakness of this situation 
that the NCAI could be undercut 10 many ways. If it was working on an unportant piece of legisla~ion it might to slow down to avoid injuring 1 ork with the BIA or the young people. Or it might have tried to assist n people only to find that it was glecting its role as representative to Congress. It was alway in a difficult ituation not knowing how to separate 1 arious tasks into manageable pro-
Re olution 26 offers a realistic look t both the NCAI and the develop­mnt in Indian country in the past ten 
. : CAI is not the only or.ganiza­llon m the field now. It has many 
o~petitors. Other organizations are domg some of the things that NCAI to do. And they are doing them 
ter. Resolution 26 enables the NCAI 0 ork with the American Indian ovement (AIM), the National Indian Youth Council (NIYC) and the Na­
tonal Tribal Chairmen's Association ·iT~A) so that the other organizations improve their own jobs by a gen­agreement among the organizations ~o Which organization will do what 
~deally divided, the NCAI can . ec?me an exclusive lobbying IUZahons and there is desperate for such a group. NTCA can 

org · •
aruzation to handle all tribal irs with the BIA. If NTCA does 
· 


this job it will be. able to improve ~he programs for reservation people wi~h­
. out jeopardizing them by hecommg involved in legislative problems. _ AIM can provide the "activist punch" that any solid movement needs. At times the bureaucracy needs a swift kick in ·the you-guessed-it. AIM can provide this and NTCA and NCAI will not have to forsake their jobs to do it. NIYC can organize Indian youth and work to get them into the various pro­grams available to Indian people. The other organizations will not have to have youth programs with NIYC around. They can concentrate on doing their jobs without having to stop and develop other programs that do not relate to what they are doing. It is very unfortunate that the NTCA did not come to the December consul­tation to talk. with the other groups. They only hurt themselves and increased the suspicions of people all over the country that they are simply tools of the BIA and certain Area Directors. If NTCA can join with the other Indian organizations to build this important coalition, 1972 can be the greatest year ever seen by Indians. The organizations will all be better off and a great many things can be accomplished. If NTCA does not join the ranks with the other groups it will mean a bad split in the national Indian com­munity. in the face of outside forces. It will also enable the BIA to continue to play offone Indian organization against another as it has always done. But it will really mean the death of the NTCA. Indian people will not sup­port an organization that sticks its head in the sand and refuses to recog­nize that it is 1972 and that things must change. Let us hope that the next meet­ing of the Indian organizations will see an active NTCA completing the care­fully worked out program of Resolution 26. 
By Vine Deloria Jr. 
.}IIK 
IND/AN VOICE 
7 


JUST PUBLISHED! 



"LOST FACE. OF CORNHUSK DOLL" by 
Everett Parker (Two Arrows) 
and Oledoska 


,money_order [J 

NAME----------­STREET ---------~­
CITY-----------­
STATE ----------­
ZIP-------­


It is common knowledge that Amer­ican Indian people have, for a long period of time, been deprived of many constitutional protections and have been subjected to a pattern of domina­tion by the United States fed<,!ral gov­ernment in sharp contrast to the limited authority of the latter relative to non­Indians. The federal government, in brief, has been able to exercise the powers of local and state governments in relation to Indian tribal territories while, at the same time, being consti­tutionally prohibited from exercising those kinds ofpowers in regards to the white population. 
Is this notion of federal supremacy in relation to Indian tribes firmly root­ed in the Constitution or is it simply a bureaucratic sideeffect of conquest? What are the constitutional powers of the federal government relative to In­dians? Are there any limitations to fed­er~l power over Indian territories? 
The Constitution is a document which both awards and denies power to the federal government. To be more precise, the Constitution creates a "limited" federal government, that is, one whose powers are limi~ed to those powers specifically-enumerated. In ad­dition, the Constitution also limits the power of the federal government by mentioning certain kinds of behavior totally prohibited to that government (as in the Fifth Amendment). 
It would seem clear that those powers denied to the federal government by the Constitution cannot be exercised by that government as regards Indians who are subjects (or citizens) of the United States. Quite obviously, the limiting as­pect of the Constitution would become meaningless if one or more classes of the population could be arbitrarily ex­empted from being protected by that document. Ofcourse, it might be argued that the two examples of Negro slavery and Indian wardship (both of which violated the Fifth Amendment and other sections of the Constitution) can serve as precedents for the ability of the federal (and state) governments to set aside or ignore the Constitution more or less at will. However, it should be noted that Negro slavery was, in fact, recognized by the Constitution (in re­gards to the apportionment of repre­

tatives ), alhtough in a "bade-handed" manner. Indian wardship, on the other hand, arose as a part of a process of extra-legal military conquest and can be regarded as a bureaucratic, as op­posed to a constitutional, development. 
What are the constitutional powers of the federal government relative to Indians and Indian tribes? First, it is interesting to note that the only refer­ence to federal power over Indians is found in Section Eight which states: 
The Congress shall . have Power 
regulate commerce with foreign ? 
and among the -several states an 118d . 
Indian tribes... 
This is the "Interstate Co 

Clause" which basically detenni 
relationship of the states to the fi 
government. The language of this 
tion is clear: the federal gove 
possesses the authority to regulate 
merce (relations as well as trade) 
the Indian tribes. 
What does this mean? Quite c 

the above section does not giyt federal government any greater over the Indian tribes than it has the states, since states and tri covered by the same language in same clause. The authority of th fi 
.eral government as regards the int 
affairs of a tribe or of a state is · · 
to the regulation of "interstate," · 
tribal," "tribal-state," "state-federal, 
"federal-tribal'' matters, that is, 
activities having' a direct relatio 
to "commerce" across state and tri 
boundaries. . 
The above section also menas 

no state can exercise any jurisdi 
over tribes since states and tri 
mentioned as equivalent units and · 
the federal government is specifi 
granted whatever authority e · 
this area. If the federal gove 
does not choose to regulate "comm 
with the tribes it does not mean 
state can step into the breach, any 
than a state can establish diplo 
relations with a foreign nation "! . 
absence of federal diplomatic actl 
In this connection another impo 

clause should be cited, to the effect 
powers not granted to the federal 
ernment are reserved to the stat 
to the people. In brief, a power 
granted to the federal govenunent 
not automatically possessed by ale 
but may be possessed by the peop 
"the people" must it would seelll,. 
' · In 

elude people of Amen~an of 
extraction. Clearly, a multitude . 
preme Court decisions (es Id 
Worcester v. Georgia) have he 
(Seep& 
IND/AN VOICE 
9 



FISHING RIGHTS STRUGGLE 
By BOB LANE . . for the fat chinook salmon contmues m_ man~ are_as: . . e G Dan Evans announced a meetmg his aides claim ----··-pia, ov.n before the sportsmen's Committee to Save Our Fish 
orks eve • · · h h l · · 
to publicly explain his posit10n o~ w at t ey c aim is unregu­. by Indians on the Puyallup River. . . gh committee J·ubilant at the prospect of fmally bemg
~.,......,llf!r t e , . . 'd • f h .
~-ai,...ront the governor, meets to discuss its si e o t at conversation. 
nding on the Nis_qua~ly up Indians and _their N is-pare a campaign to un­en who oppose a mili­to the sports fishermen's 
trations. 
r Puyallup, Indian com­rm n, ignoring taunts rs and pickup trucks t nd their drift nets or n of whether they'll be · I nt test of Indian and 

that can unite a complex family of 
proud Indian brothers who are scat­
tered geographically, and ideologically 
across watersheds and generations. 
Ralph M. Thorpe Jr., president of the Committee to Save Our Fish, pro­mised U.S. District Judge George H. Boldt that he and members of his group would conduct a peaceful, sym­bolic river fish-in, not promise enough for Matheson. One of his sons has several times faced guns held by white men. Some of these men were law of­ficers. Others, Matheson believes, were sports fishermen, imposing their own interpretation ofriverbank justice on his boy and other young Indian men who fished the Puyallup River with nets. 
Guns Flash 

Indian men have pointed guns at whites, and both sides in the past year have seen guns flash and fire. 
Matheson labored to establish a lawful, effective counterforce to an an­ticipated challenge by white fishermen to the tribe's claim to an exclusive fish­ing right on the lower Puyallup River. 
Perhaps no more than 40 of the tribe's enrolled membership of 300 ex­ercise the fishing right. But at their re­quest, the Puyallup Tribal Council passed a resolution prohibiting fishing by non-Indians in the river, and pro­claiming a season for enrolled Puyallup Indians or their spouses beginning July 
7. This conflicted with regulations is­sued by the State Department of Fish­eries, which proclaimed an Indian com­~ercial fishery on the Puyallup begin­nmg August 15. 
Other conflicts concerned the amoup.t of time nets are permitted in the river. The Indian rules allow four days a week of net fishing, the state's only one day a week for the first month, then three days the second month. 
The state's rules also restrict mesh size to 7½-inch the first month and 6­inch the second. The Indian rules, as widely published, provide no mesh re­striction. 
Symbolic Gesture 

The early Indian-declared season seemed more a gesture than a genuine attempt to begin the harvest in July. The fish weren't in the river, according to the occasional Indian fishermen who took the time to set a net in it. And even sportsmen "spotters," whose vigil of Indian activity in order to support a case against the net fishery may have : 
. unwittingly fanned "vigilante" fears, agreed that the early salmon haul was slight. 
But if the Indians were making a symbolic gesture, so too were the sportsmen. On July 8, the day after the Indian season had opened, the Committee to Save Our Fish met in Puyallup to discuss a variety of fish conservation programs. Among these was a proposal by Thorpe that the sportsmen net the salmon themselves as they entered the river from Com­mencement Bay and transport them by truck up-river around the fishery area, assuring that an ample fish population would reach the State Fisheries salmon hatchery on Voight Creek near Orting. 
The plan seemed hardly feasible, but confrontation seemed assured. 
Following the violent clashes involv­ing Indians, white supporters, sports­men and law officers over the Indian fishing activity a year ago, the U.S. attorney's office in Seattle challenged in U.S. District Court the State of Washington's right to regulate a fishing right established between the soverign Indian nations and the United States of America in the treaty of Medicine Creek in 1854. 
Suit Filed 

The suit was filed in the name of the Puyallup and Nisqually Indian tribes but an avalanche of would-be 
(See page 22) 


. ~ . . , 

. ~ 
. 
. 
. 


EXPLOITING DEAD INDIANS 


FRANKLINVILLE, Pa.-(AIPA)­The thin line between courtesy and commercialism concerning the Ameri­can Indian breaks down· altogether in the tourist industry, where a fast buck boggles the Native mind. 
A case in point: Pennsylvania's In­dian Caverns, today reachable by driving through the abundant corn and alfalfa, plentiful pheasants and squirrels, pump­kins and fattened Holsteins which thrive on the lush green pasturelands here along Spruce Creek just below the 


The inner reaches of the caverns they lit with pineknot torches, and the smoke of many fires still smears the multiform limestone walls. There they fashioned tomahawks and bowls of stone, chipped stonepoints for arrows to bag abundant game nearby, and inscribed the walls with emblems of their belief. 
There the clan buried its dead, gave birth to its young, dressed its meat and dried its corn but a few feet from the still-clean waters of Spruce. Creek. Among the tall maple and elder, oak 

Juniata Mountains. The Indian Caverns yield but a few clues of the mystery and the once-thriving life of the Mo­hawk of the Iroquois Confederacy. 
At the outbreak of the French and Indian War in the mid-1700's they picked up camp to join their other clans­men in the Northeast, leaving traces of their life in a system of limestone caves here. 
For an estimated four hundred years before their departure, the clan found shelter, stored food, and enjoyed their ceremonies in a labyrinth of stone­curtained rooms reaching deep into the heart of the mountain. 
and hemlock they enjoyed the rhythms of a total life. Today arrowheads are sold for a dollar aprece. 
Today the area is laced with farms and motorcycle tracks, and a shoot­ing range for gun fanatics. -Outside the cavern itself is a pink . stucco curio shop which charges $2.50 admission for a one-mile foot tour. A concrete tepee with Navajo designs sits at the foot of the caverns-sealed with a foolproof door-and an Alaskan totem pole "to delight the hearts of the children" is there f~r the camera's eye. 
An American flag fla a _shaved hemlock tr! still gre~n with bows. 
The firm which opera today calls them "P 
. e

I
nterestmg Natural Wo rooms are marked Q BRAVES. And while to ~ay through the cave nous ~gents pastes pro to their car bumpers 
The ~avems them~Iv geologists, were the co undergound river. 
On the tour now yo "I!1dian view of heaven w_1de tunnel with flannel pmg a totem pole lit by bulb. You can see uu·illCI.._ 
· mal formations" the point out, like a di the Elephant, Leo the bacon" formations, and wit a lucky ping when one room the guide po· constellation of "Indian 
In the early l800's an David Lewis used the ca out. But repeated fora bowels of the cavern ha Lewis's purported "t.rea11m• lure of instant wealth greedy. 
The caverns have a" fireflies," where, when tinguished, tiny radium in the blackness like meeting room of the Mo the· guide tells you, t for breaking any stone Ii the Civil Defense Office cavern as a shelter in nuclear attack. 
But the final straw an will see is the "Wishinl Benefit of the American glisten on the botton of basin filled with limesto ators of the curio shop lessly questioned, con actually went to an ° Food for Millions-an devoted to the ~ . food concentrate add•U 
use. the 
Pushed further, knowledged that the ~ went to the "First In 
Said one co-owner:. today are the I~di~n trailS A shame isn t it. . . byR• 
IND/AN VOICE 11 



1ndi an movement ilMI.MlV-'l---•••••••• 
1,~EES ACTIVE 
f the plight of the ~umbee ~ 0 ti from the. people ~ pecu­
•cliteC ;hen the first S~ottI~h set­lailt0ryi,eson County arnved m the of Ro the Lum bees were already eent~y including the Lumbees 
No h;s exercised a concerted es, ure that the Lum bees finish 

to ass c

uansition from the 18th entury of life to the 20th Century way. it sometimes seems that the fad, rdinated effort has been that eootoward assuring that t~~ Lum­do not finish the trans1t1on. A look at the recent history of the 
ederal-Lumbee relations is of at this point. . JS3S, the Lumbees were d1sen­fllldlised by the State and ba~red from · g the white schools. Fifty years in 1885, the State Legislature..,.aed the Indians formally and them the Croatans. At the same the State authorized a separate · n school system for Robeson 
ty;" then, in a couple of years, -cherokee Indians of Robeson Canty." 
bwas not until 1914 that the Federal IIMffllllent exhibited even that much oaacem over the Lumbees. That year, Caaress ordered an investigation of the 
a-onCounty situation by 0. M. non. He concluded that the -llui;l!Cli were "an amalgamation of the llaaeras Indians with Governor White's Colony." There the matter rested far as Congress was concerned until · That year, Congress debated on the Lumbees should be offi­
• called the "Cheraws" or the "Siou­They never decided. Finally, in . ie No~h Carolina Legislature Y ~esignated the Robeson Peet Indians as Lumbees. In 1956, laN era} Congress did the same. °'-'oovember, 1969, Lumbee Regional 
.._s:ntAss?ciation, Inc. launched mmumty-based program to 
an orga · · 
for ~izat_ion as a strong ad­
1nd1 
. ans m Robeson County.

--a IS C · 
onsistent with the aware-e Problems of native Ameri­.._ bi~~he _country. LRDA, as it n m the Indian commu­non-profit corporation which 
was organized to analyze and develop 
solutions for the health, educational, 
economic, and general welfare problems 
of rural and urban Indians in and 
around Robeson County, North Caro­
lina. 

During the past three years, the or­
ganization has developed into a struc­
ture with a Board of Directors, an Ad­
visory Council, and Advisory Com­
mittees which give advice and support 
to projects and activities sponsored by 
the organization. Such organization 
has been directed toward identification 
of problems and needs for the social 
and economic betterment of Lumbee 
Indians in a long-range attempt to build 
Indian pride and unity. The organiza­
tion focuses on needs and problems, 
actively seeking solutions to attack 
problems which affect the lives of all 
Indians in Robeson County. 
Indians in Robeson County have throughout their history been a self­sustaining people -they have purchased and owned land, paid taxes, owned their businesses, been industrious farmers, and in their earlier history, maintained their own school with little public support. They have practiced a policy of self-determination from their earliest beginning. But in the midst of plenty, they have been isolated and barred from access to many services available to them. LRDA is directing its efforts toward a program of self­determination which encompasses the very realities of Indian life -poverty, lack of education and poor educational achievement, expansion of Indian-owned businesses, limited job opportunities and lack of job training skills, and other programs which will have a direct im­pact on the status of the Indian. 
The major contribution of the or­ganization is that it is seeking to build a vehicle through which Indians can vocalize their concerns and express themselves, and collectively seek solu­tions to their problems. The Board of Directors, the staff, with the exception of part-time workers and consultants, are Indian, and the programs are fo­cusing on Indian problems and needs, all of which are directed and guided by Indians themselves. Local Indian leadership, talents and abilities are be­ing utilized in addition to the resources of other Indians who have migrated from Robeson County, but who have a continuing interest in the plight of the "homefolk." LRDA is instrumental in developing a process by which the Lumbees are identifying their own par­ticular problems and recommending 
action which they will condone in solv­ing these problems. Advisory Councils and Advisory Committees are effectively participating in the planning and gui­dance of programs. 
During the developmental stages of the organization, negotiations and ex­posure to private foundations, federal agencies, state agencies, and local agen­cies have been pursued. But. perhaps the most important accomplishment is that for the first time a real effort has been made to seek to identify and unite with other Indian groups and tribes in the State and in the Nation. The or­ganization sponsored a delegate to the Conference of All Tribes on Alcatraz; several students have been admitted to Law School in Albuquerque, New Mex­ico; interns have been placed in national federal offices; other students have re­ceived educational scholarships, and the organization holds the largest block of membership votes in the National Congress of American Indians. 
For the first time in their history, federal funds have been granted directly into the Indian community. The or­ganization has sponsored an Adult Ba­sic Education Outreach Project funded with private Ford Foundation funds through the National Congress of American Indians; grants from the U.S. Office of Education for the conduct of an Emergency School Assistance Program, a Lumbee Talent Search Project, and an Adult Basic Education Program have been received, and in November, 1971, a grant from the U.S. Department of Labor for a Neighbor­hood Youth Corp Project was received. A Program Management and Admini­stration grant was received in June, 1971, from the U.S. Office of Economic Opportunity. 
Using local leadership and available resources, the organization feels that it can provide the guidance and direction to build the Indian pride and aware­ness which can move them toward unity and development of group co­hesiveness which can successfully inte­grate them into collective bargaining, decision-making capacities, and give them a voice in determining and shaping their future. The organization has also been active in coordinating with other Indian tribes and groups in North Caro­lina for the creation of'the State Com"." mission on Indian Affairs, enacted by legislature in June, 1971; for two years sponsored a Lum bee Pow-Wow' entered a contestant in the Miss Indian Ameri"." ca Pageant in 1971, and is seeking to 
(See page 25) 



CALIFORNIA RURAL ·HEALTH PROJECT 
Due to the termination policies of the federal government during the 50's, In­dians of California have been excluded from various federal programs and ser­vices available to Indians of other states. Termination, or the ending of federal services to Indians, is of grave concern to those now terminated and is being used as a threat to those not terminated. The end of federal services frequently means more economic deprivation for the poorest of the poor. · 
One of the programs discontinued in California was the federally adminis­tered Indian Health Service (IHS), United States Public Health. The Na­tional Indian Health Service Budget is $150 million, and with apptoximately one-sixth of the Nation's Indian pop­ulation, California would be entitled to more that $25 million, on a per capita basis. 
After IHS was terminated in Cali­fornia, the State, through the State Department of Public Health, (SDPH), was to assume the responsibility for Indian health problems. Indians were to be served equally with any other citizen of the State. But this has proved, in fact, not the case. Interviews and surveys discovered that Indian Health was deteriorating, and that Indians were two to three generations · behind the population as a whole in the area of health. / 
Througnout the state this tremendous gap between the health services avail­able to the whites, and those available to Indian people caused the Indian voice to grow louder and louder. 
In June 1967 the Division of Indian Health provided the State Department of Public Health with $152,000 to be subcontracted to the Indian groups for a health aide program. 
In July and August, 1967, a group of Indian advisors met with an assistant to Governor Reagan to develop recommen­dations for the development of a rural Indian Health Program. 
In January 1968 the Program began with the SDPH subcontracting to nine local Indian groups to develop auton­omous rural health projects. To staff the nine projects, the budget was in­creased to $245,000. 
After eighteen months of inconsistent and inadequate funding the Indian voice grew loud enough to be heard in Washington, D. C. The voice took the form of the newly developed California Rural Indian Health Board, Inc. (CRIHB). The Board is composed of two elected representatives from each local project for a total of thirty-two Indian members. 
A few successes of the Program and CRIHB include: 
1. 
Securing a policy decision from HEW that California Indians could once again share in the fed­eral Indian Health Service nation­al appropriation. 

2. 
Nominating two Indians to CRIHB as Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Fellows. Jennie Jo, Public Health Nurse, (Navajo) and Dennis Ma­gee, (Mission) were both accepted by the Kennedy Foundation. 

3. 
A $50,000 one-year Donner Foundation Grant for organiza­tional purposes. 

4. 
A growth from nine original pro­jects to the present sixteen projects. 

5. 
Renting a warehouse where den­tal operatories and x-ray units are being repaired and stored. All 

· equipment collected has been do­nated, and on request is installed at local projects. 


6. 
Having Mrs. Ethel Kennedy as the guest of honor in 1971, and Congressman Don Clausen as the guest of honor at a banquet. 

7. 
Initiating a scholarship fund named after Leland Majel (Mis­sion) who was killed in an acci­dent. 

8. 
Having the budget increased from $300,000 to $750,000; presently there is a proposal for $7 million before Congress. 

9. 
The most significant accomplish­ment of a local project is the clinic built on the Morongo Indian Res­ervation through donated funds and labor. The clinic today op­erates full time (medical & dental care), but is already in need of expansion. 

10. 
Obtaining funding and profession­al and clerical assistance for Board meetings from the State Depart­ment of Public Health. 

11. 
Signing the first contract with In­dian Health Service, United States Public Health Service to become administratively responsible for the California Rural Indian Health Program, replacing the State Department of Public Health. 


In summary, CRIHB has b successful in demonstrating tha:~n !e an~ capab~e of administering andndia agmg their own affairs. The man mentioned successes are only ~ho the overall accomplishments a 1;-w of would like to know more ab 011 Program, contact California Rout t dian Health Board, 1760 Sola:aiI nue, Berkeley, CA., 94707 tel h 
(415) 527-7400. ' ep o 
by Timm Williams and Joe Carru1o 
~ 



An Indian Prayer 
By Sacheen One Feather 

0 Great Spirit Whose voice I hear in the winds And Whose breath gives life to ail 
the world,, H ear me! 
I am small and weak, I need your strength and wisdom. Let. me walk in beauty, and make my eyes ever behold 
The red and purple sunset Make my hands to respect the things you have made, and M y ears sharp to hear your voice. 
Make me wise so that I understand the things you have taught my peoplt. Let me learn the lessons you have hidden in every leaf and rock. 
I seek strength, not to be greater than my brother But to fight my greatest enemy-
myself 

Make me always ready to come to with clean hands and straight eyes. So when life fades, as the fading sunset, M y spirit may come to you unas 
IND/AN VOICE 13 




-"'"iJticles-~~~~~~~~~~~-llVMVMW 
THE LUMBEE STORY-PART 2 A short history of the Lumbees since 1800 

f ctors of geography, mobility, d ~ial status probably influenced n ? ·ns of the Lum bee Indians, so the o_rnfligtuenced the fate of the descend-
the i . . 1 b d 
Of the ongma an . 

nt · ·1 h 
10 · ce the swamp region was untl t e 
1 1 . 

.ddle nineteenth century arge y mac-nu 'ble it became the ideal place for r fu~ee~ of various kinds to hide. As E ans implies (p. 25ft), the area ?f Robeson County was among the last m the tate to be settled by westward­moving pioneers. There were fields a­vailable, but they were few; most of the rable land of today was under water until an elaborate drainage system was d eloped over the course of the last ntury. And apparently Indian refugees ttled in this region between 1587 and 1 32; McMillan implies (seep. 3ft), and E ans states (p. 4), that the Lumbee may have been settled in the Robeson ounty region for some time prior to 1587, which also implies a homoge­neous tribal origin. But archeological evidence seems to say that, while the area was much travelled-through (Mc­illan, p. 28 ff), there is little evidence of Indians having lived in the area on a permanent basis before they were pre sured by white encroachment to do 
0. 
The result was that the Indians of Robeson and surrounding counties "acquired" some of the least desirable land in the state. Lands were held in common until Scots escaping from the 1 ranny of the royal government in En­gland found their way among the ~umbee in the first-two decades of the ighteenth century (Evans, p. 30). These /ttl~rs evi?ently felt it necessary to cquire Indian land from the King of England. Indians soon followed this Patt~m; the first known grant to a Lum­
is from George II to Henry Berry ~~~ Jam~s Lowrie," ... two leading men (M hMe _tnbe... ," and was for 100 acres .Th illan, p. 3, p. 27). . cepte~ L~mbees. 8:pparently quietly ac­
co . this condition. They had always Ill nsidered themselves friends of white cde~(Oxendine, p. 18), and even accept­able e 1?ss ot their lands without trace-
animosity (~vans, p. 5). 

But with the poorest land also came a low social status; one can almost positively infer some correlation bet­ween the two phenomena. Other social trends also contributed to the lower social status of the Lumbee. Slavery was of course common throughout the South at the time, and there slave­holders intermixed with the population of Robeson. But the rationale for slave­ry was not restricted to the African native. As Evans puts it (p. 32): 
The defenders ofthe system every­where were cultivating an elaborate body of racist ideas which served not only to justify human inequali­ty, but also to solidify the whites in upholding an institution that could not exist without broad com­munity support. 
The white slaveholder society in the early l 800's was building up an elabo­rate heirarchy of social customs and etiquette, belief, opinions and attitudes, which in 1835 became law. While the number of slaves was on the increase, there was also a small body of "free Negroes" (some of which were in Robe­son), which were increasing in number all over the state. For several reasons the · powers felt it unwise to re-enslave 
these free Blacks but felt themselves threatened by the potential political power of the Blacks. In 1835 a new con­stitution was ratified for North Carolina which denied "free persons of color" the right to vote, to own, or to bear arms (Evans, p. 5, p. 32). 

While this constitution was intended for free Negroes, the local power struc­ture of Robeson county did not inter­pret it only this way. Officials of Robe­son took the wording to mean that it was intended for any non-white person, as did officials of Cherokee county ( center of the Eastern Cherokees), and they denied citizenship rights to the two large Indian groups for 33 years (Evans, p. 32; Oxendine, p. 14). 
The Lum bees (as well as other groups; see Berryp. 152 ff) resented this attempt and similar ones which implied that they were Negroes rather than Indians. At the outbreak of the Civil War, the Lumbees were approached to contribute to the Confederate effort; they largely refused, saying they would gladly bear arms, but would not so gladly work alongside Negro slaves on breastworks (Oxendine, p. 16). (They had fought alongside the colonists in 1776, and with the new Americans in 1812.) They were conscripted anyway; many ran away and hid in the local swamps ra­ther than submit. This dispute led to the bloodiest guerilla warfare on the East Coast between colonial times and the present, when the Henry Berry Lo­wery band of outlaws actively fought against the conditions they were forced


-·rave,i 


The Lumbee Story 
into. (See Evans for a full account of this IO year action.) One result of the Lowery struggle (there were other cau­ses as well of course) was that the 1868 new Con~titution under the Radical Republican regime once more allowed the Indians of Robeson county full privileges of citizenship. . 
The Lowery band could surv_1ve and function as outlaws and terronsts for IO years (1864-74) because of the pecularities of terrain w~ich are an ?ut­standing trait of the reg10n. And smce the Indians also lived in the more re­mote areas of the swamps, they were able to make better use of the terrain. The Lowery episode was with?u~ a doubt directly responsible for bmldmg a sense of pride and dignity in the Lumbees; Lowery is today still a large~­than-lif e legend among them, and 1s the center of many stories and tradi­tions. 
The "dark ages" period of 1835-68 (Oxendine, p. 16) also threw education­al and social progress into abeyance. The Lumbees were not forbidden to attend school, but if they attended, they had to go to Negro schools or to o~~a­sional 'subscription' schools (Oxendme, 
p. 16). This was a particular problem even after 1868; the first Indian school was not established until 1885 and went through the fifth grade. Anyone of the Lumbee who wished to go to school at all before 1885, or to go beyond fifth grade from 1885 until about 1905, was forced to go to school with Negroes. The number who chose to do this, or who could move away from the com­munity and "pass" as whites, (is proba­bly) less than IO. (One notable among these few became Dean of the Law School at Shaw University; there are two others who also graduated from Shaw, known to this writer.) 
This condition is greatly changed today. Pembroke State University is a well-respected institution which produces Lumbee graduates every year, and is (partly) controlled by Lumbees. 
The development of separate schools and other institutions is largely a reflec­tion of the attitudes developed by the Indians . in defense of the attitudes of racial superiority displayed by whites (see Berry, p. 152 ff). The local ~hi~~st iri an attempt to maintain ~racial ~u­rity," developed customs which reqmre them to act in certain ways toward Lum bees and to "keep them. in their place" when there seems to be a social threat. 
The doctrine of separateness has hardened with many of the Lumbee into a distrust of whites in general, which has not been greatly altered by the obviously friendly actions of such whites as Hamilton McMillan (see Mc­Millan) and Judge LR. Varner (see Oxendine, p. 51), both of whom fought for and won concessions from the Ge­neral Assembly to establish schools among the Lumbee. This attitude on the part of the whites is typified by the fact that the Robeson County Histori­cal Association has never published any research on Lumbee history. As far as the Association is concerned, the histo­ry of Robeson county is an~ has been the history of the local whit~ settl~rs and their descendants (Interview with Dr. W. McKee Evans, January, 1970). 
The Lumbees have long insisted that 

they are somehow different from. the 
local whites, apart from the obv10us 
genetic and physio~no1!1ic differences. 
This difference, which 1s largely unde­
fined and unverbalized, ·is based on the 
commonality and survivability of six 
or more Indian cultures in amalgama­
tion, modified by the pressure of adopt­
ing obviously Englis~ concepts ~uch as 
holding land in fee simple title mstead 
of in common. 
It is possible, (and largely undone) to 

trace these remnants of distinctly 
Indian tribal culture among the Lum bee 
today. The most outstanding of these 
cultural traits-and the most central 
to the Lumbee way of life: subsistence 
farming modified to a great~r or _lesser 
extent by commercial farmmg---:-1s t~e 
ideology or attitude of the relat10nsh1p 
between man and the land. The tradi­
tional Indian holds the land and Na­
ture in respect, recognizing the ultimate 
worth of all things. This view has 
merged with the Western in Lumbee 
ideology; the land is something to be 
owned in fee simple, but is not to be 
lightly disposed of. As Barton ~oints 
out, land in Robeson country 1s ex­
tremely difficult to buy, and wh~n sold 
tends to bring above-market pnces. 
To the traditional Indian, every act impinged on ~ome other person or thing, and therefore had to be _under­taken with the utmost good will and with the proper attitude. Religi_o~ i~ in everything in this schema, and 1t 1s im­possible for traditionals t? separate ~ut religion as simply a philosophy with which to guide one's life. To the extent that religion is regarded as at least o_ut­wardly important, this artifact of Indian culture is still with the Lumbee and important. Barton points out that there are close to I00 churches in a pulation of 30,000 or one church every 300 people. 
Tied closely today to the religion the custom of the burial of the dea( is still a custom among the Lurn1,ee have family cemeteries, and to llthet at least once each year to repair, c-.: and maintain the graves. 
The elaborate funeral cerein (in which most of the local cornm participates and which lasts for and the family cemeteries also another carryover from the Indian dition-the kinship system. Man the Siouan, Iroquoian and Algonq peoples who formerly inhabited Carolinas had clan systems, es the Tuscarora and Cherokee, but were essentially extended multi-f. bands or tribes (see Swanton). basis of social structure was the · system and organization. This has ried down to the Lumbee to some1 tent; the Lowery family, for i the most influential family in the is referred to as a "clan," but · reality an extended family with or members in every Indian comm in Robeson county. There is also Chavis "clan," mainly in two loca • the Brooks "clan," and a few lea merous ones. 
It is these families, and their · action with each other, which is basis for community action, s and politically. Within each claa certain "spokesmen" who have a proportionate a~ount .~f infl within the respective families, a~ these strategic individuals who ably become the spokesmen, th~ saries to Washington and Rale1 who select alternates. And only hers of three influential clans have mayor of the town of Pe~broke most central political job m L country, in the past sever~l de the Lowerys, the Oxendmes Locklears. 
The mayor's office in Pembr one of the few purely political held by Lumbees, and is gen~rall~ sidered to "belong" to them, m s the fact that most of the "pow~r ture" in Robeson county is white. 
Except for this office o~e wo most conclude that there 1s a Indian government, or that L had indeed melted into local tion. But they are institutionallY, to some extent geographically, se ted. There are three school_ sys the county, (which are adID1nt5l the all-white school board, ho 
(See 
IND/AN VOICE 15 

.l.QJI.J!JL.11~~--•c....1n,...eMMaMWMWM•••••MMMM,
1111111111 



g.ASE AND MEDICINE 
•nning Unehlanvhi (God) 

the;fYunwi (Mankind). He . forth from The Mother 
t him . . b 'f 1
d laced him m a eautl u ':itJ all manner of wonderful (i bis pleasure and .comfort. 
or trees to give him cool shade weremer and to build lodges to 

sUlll f ·
him from the cold o wmter. re cool running streams ofclear ~ bi'm to drink. And there were 
,or 'd h'

ner of plants to provi e im . ~;he had only to pick the ber­nuts, fruits, and vegetables as_ ~e them. He made The Y unwi m own image and made him master all he surveyed. Then He taught to treat all things with respect­-to use them wisely an? never to anything. And to give back to Mother Earth a part of everything took. He revealed the secret of peace 
happiness and everlasting life. 
But The Yunwi became bored. One · mind conceived the idea that they not have any hair at all on their . So he gathered together all those agreed with this and, using shells tweezers, they removed the hair their bodies. This kept their idle · s busy for awhile. They called the with hair The Yonv (The Bears). 
And then The Yunwi had another They could have The Yonv do the ·ous tweezer job for them as a pun­nt for being contrary. When The onv protested, they enforced their la­r by forbidding them to gather their 
food unless they also brought foo<i . The Yunwi. The Y onv retreated to cavesand lived in hiding from their · 
utors and gathered their food only leeret. As The Yunwi became stronger tronger and hunted them out with re diligence, The Y onv retreated and ~e more secretive; and in hiding, time went on, they became smaller smaller animals. Some of them be­snakes. Some retreated into the ter and became fishes. And others ~ ted into the air to become birds. 
~tually insects and bugs appeared. The Yunwi became more and more ::::in the_ir ~earch for these obstinate ls until m their frustration they ~ beating them into submission. g the Year of The Great Drought, 
when there· was no food, they found that animal flesh was good to eat. Eat­ing meat became the fashion. Man de­vised the bow and arrow, spear, toma­hawk, blowgun, knives, and hooks to use against the animals, and this brought about the first social revolution. 
The Bears were the first to organize a protest movement. The White Bear Chief called a Council at Mulberry Place and chaired the meeting. After each in turn had spoken out against the inhumanity of Man, who beat them and devoured them and stole their coats, it was unanimously elected to declare War. But they could not decide on a plan of action. They were unable to use the weapons of Man unless they cut off 
\ '\/ 
_-..--­
.,,,,,. Ir\\'" 






GOOD MEDICI NE 
their claws like a Man; and what use was it to defeat their enemy if, in so doing, they became like him? So they organized a General Meeting of all the under-privileged creatures of the earth to plan the action. 
At the General Meeting, only the Ground Squirrel was a pacifist. When he timidly suggested they should nego­tiate further, the others all fell upon him with their teeth and claws and ripped him up one side and down the other. He carries the stripes on his back to this day. The others sat about de­vising methods to demand their rights. The Deer proposed that he would strike the unjust hunter with rheumatism, making him a helpless cripple. 
The Reptiles agreed to inflick horrible dreams on their victims, of snakes en­circling them with slimy coils and clog­ging their nostrils with their stinking breath. The Snake was mad about all the senseless clobbering of snakes for pure meanness, and he said they would hold a sit-in and lay an egg before each ­lodge that would hatch out into a pes­tilence. The Fishes would foul their mouths with the taste of rotting fish, so that they would lose their appetites and die of starvation. 
The Bird complained that Man tor­tured him by roasting him over the fire and burning his feet off; so he would inflict a burning fever to torture Man. The Toad said he had been mistreated and kicked about because of his ugli­ness, so he would send warts to blemish the skin. The Worm said he was tired of being stepped on, from either care­lessness or pure cussedness, and he pro­posed that they should infiltrate the body of Man and work from the inside. 
Each one in turn thought up a new · and vicious malady until they had ex­hausted their inventiveness. The Grub­worm listened with delight as each new menace was mentioned,jumping up and down in his excitement and glee, until at last he was beside himself and fell over backwards. He has been wriggling around on his back ever since. 
They sent notice of their decision to all the settlements of Man, making it clear that when any one of these ail­ments occurred, Man should know straight off to cease and desist from . eating the flesh of the particular animal who caused it. 
When the War began, The Plants lined up on the side of Man. U nole (The Wind) spread the news throughout the countryside, and as each new di­sease was created, a different Plant arose to meet the need and manufac­ture a cure. Every tree, shrub, flower, moss, and blade of grass became a Dispensary. Even every weed that grows carries some useful antidote, if Man would only recognize it. 
The Spirit Plant volunteered to give Man a sign for the different drugs. For a disease caused by a rabbit, rabbit's food, or rabbit's ear should be used. The juice of the burr would cure for­getfulness; for what else on earth will "stick like a burr"? The yellow bark of certain trees is to be used to induce vomiting of yellow bile from the stom­ach. And of course snakeroot for snake­bite. Medicine Men began to search out the plant lore and use their healing powers. 
This was the beginning of Medicine. 
by R~ven Hail 

_)Ill{. 



16 IND/AN VOICE ~I•~•'-,, ~~~--....~~ ,,.,.'-'.:..:"-:...":~~"."' -..-.~~'-4'-.... ~..,_ '-::-.._ :'t-~~ ~----'-.c X_:_:,-,.:!'_ ~, :,-_..,,._.-__•~~ 
-,_ -. --~...., ,:.,.._ ,",./~• ------........ . . ,--,, __ ..._::-,_ '~-:-:::: '"~----.... '--~-' ~ ... -----· 
..~
historica ~~ .1,-4~~~~-:_.:. rl.~:~~1 ..±"L j~~-"j_ -:: L-J ~ ~ .::-i::.~_-:-:j~...::_~t.-~~--J~. _JL~:.::;:~1#...~ _. .-•.I>, · 
_j ~ •.n S?:J~Zt..~l~ ---.. iA!~·---~lrr.,~ ~ ,;.j~:,...;:.~j..cJ ..J :.~1!~ ~~~~~B .. ;1 ' -1 .. · JlF'1J:'Si;jtM~~!la 
The Seneca-Cayugas of Oaklahoma live in Ottawa and-Delaware Counties on the Cowskin Bayou or Elk River of Grand Lake Reservoir near Grove and Wyandotte, Oaklahoma. They are de­scendants of Iroquoian groups from_ 

· Pennsylvania-Seneca, Mohawk, Cay­uga, Tuscarora, Erie, Conestoga, and various non-Iroquoian groups. They were originally called Mingoes, which is the Delaware name for them. 
IROQ_UOIS BARK 
. LOKGHOUS£ 
A group of Mohawks later joined the Mingo nucleus from Oka on the lake of the Two Mountains near Que­bec, Canada. The Mingoes were British allies, and abandoned Pennsylvania in 1785 from which they moved to Steu­benville, Ohio area and established a settlement called Mingotown. After the Revolutionary War, they settled on the Sandusky River in Ohio. Here they were known as the Senecas of San­dusky. Some of the Mohawks, Eries, and Conestogas were allied with the Shawnees settled near Westfield, Ohio. This second group were known as the Mixed Band of Senecas and Shawnees. 
During the Revolutionary War of 1812, the two bands were allies of the British. The Mixed Band of Senecas and Shawnees lived near Lewistown, Ohio in 1795. In 1800 a group of Cayugas from New York moved among the Senecas. By the Treaty of Peace of 1817, the Senecas were given 40,000 acres and the Mixed Band was given 16,000 acres, all in Ohio. Separate re­moval treaties were made with the two bands in 1831 . 
Under the -removal treaties the Sen­ecas were given a reservation of 67,000 acres on the Neosho and Elk Rivers of Northeastern Oaklahoma. The Mixed Band was given a reservation of 60,000 acres just north of the other band in Ottawa County, Oklahoma. Both groups arrived in the Indian Territory , in 1832. Among the Mixed Band was a group of fifty Mohawks from Oka, Quebec. 


THE SENECAS-CA YUGAS 
The Seneca-Cayugas hav 
. f h ea
cation o t e Northern Iroq . monials. At the first full rnuoian . oon of 
new year m January the . festivals are held with th lllJd 
During the Civil War, the Senecas 

· and the Mixed Band were loyal to the Union and left the Indian Territory for Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. After the war, the Iroquoian elements of both bands amalgamated upon return to the Indian Territory and were given a reservation of 60,000 acres formerly occupied by the Senecas. In 1880, a group of Canadian Cayugas joined the "Senecas" in Oklahoma and thus the present Seneca-Cayugas were formed. Their lands were allotted in 1888 when the Quawpaw Agency was dissolved. The combined population of this mixed Iroquoian band was 518 in 1832, and in 1940 there were 738 Seneca-Cayuga on the rolls of the Quapaw Agency with 36 full bloods. 


HUSK-FACE
FALSE-FACE 
MASK
MASK 


Ceremonies of the Seneca-Cayugas 

The ceremonial grounds of the Se­neca-Cayugas are located at Bassett Springs on the north side of the Cow­skin Bayou or Elk River on the shores of Grand Lake. · The grounds consist of forty acres owned by the _tribe. The present long house is a tin roofed shed under which the dances are held. In 1950 the war dance or Wasase was held in it during the Green Corn Dance. On the grounds is a log dwelling where a Wyandot artist and his Seneca­Cayuga wife lived. There is a small grocery store nearby. 
The language of the rituals is Seneca, but the common language of the people is Cayuga; 
dances from which Whites e 

eluded. Other seasonal cerernw~ !he s~ring thanksgiving at se:i mg time_, s~rawberry and black ceremonies m May and June and green corn d~nces in Augu;l dances are social or friendship Adoption ceremonies and a Yearly bal dinner is held on Christmas Condolence feasts are held after death of lov~d ones. 


Inheritance is matrilineal clans; but inheritance of prope
rty dealings with the whites was pat Women were the rulers of the by their influence on the ceremo and when the approval of the matriarch is gained, the entire p goes along with her decision. Pot 
ers or the ceremonial sponsors hereditary, six in number, and are vested at the green corn August. 
-~ 



CONDOLENCE CAM! 

The pothangers are called the 
fai keepers among the N orthem Iroqu Each female pothanger has a helper who is not necessarily a . tive of the female pothanger but the same clan. The pothangers the sun-moon staff, the peach game quiots, and the ceremonial The pothangers serve at the 0 or condolence feast held on the versary of the death of the metnbed the tribe and supervise the funeral arations for the burial. 
by John D. G' 




)-Ill( 

IND/AN VOiCE 17 


,.,---~~~~~~~~, '(1rom Page 6) 
nationai business development organiz­
I 
POEMS SUGGESTED BY OLD ~ 
ations, business resource centers, private 
CHEROKEE SONGS ~ 
resource programs, contracted support services, state OMBEs, business manage­
byRobertJ. Conley : ment development and experiment and
iJ Southwest Missouri State College : 
demonstration projects. 

1. Listen. the Blue Sparrow-Hawk quickly came down from his resting place in the spreading tree tops swooped down upon the intruder-bird which had overshadowed the child. 
Relief has come. 
Yu. 
2. Listen. the birds have come together for a council within the small body ofthe child. quickly the Brown Rabbit-Hawk has come from his resting place above & scattered the birds. quickly. . relief has come. 

I 
3.


IThe river holds my soul Long Man I bring my soul to bathe in your body the white foam clinging to my head shall be as white hairs Long Man give me long life 
~-­
Listen.­you anidawe spirits who dwell on high 
forever you dwell iri the pines in Umwadahi co~e quickly rehefhas come 
lfayi. . .






--~~~~---~-ft)~ 

5. I stand in the midst of the storm 
maked 
I am not cold the rain washes me 
thhe w_inhds _candnot carry m_ekaway t e 11g tnmg oes not stn e me the thunder is my friend Yu. 
6. I ride the wind Red War Club held high Victory Isay I stand high on earth in the midst of the white path Hayi when I shout mountains tremble 
7. I wade in the waters in the body ofLong Man that I too may gain long life 
Yu. 
8. On my breast battle scars deep I have bled those who made them I have placed under the earth below the Black Slab motionless their souls. 
9. 0 great hunter I come to your side give me the wind ~ive me the breeze 

1O. I rise and face the East earth and sky beside me 
I walk in day I walk in night the evening star guides me wherever I go no one is ever lonely 
Yu. . 
II ~ 
~ 
· · 
! 
! 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
! 
I 
I 
I 
~~ 
1 
I ~ 
~ 

In initiating a full-scale Indian attack, NCAI is not expecting to come through without getting its nose bloodied. De­velopments thus far, however, indicate that congressional interest is beig aroused and this could have an affirm­ative impact on what NCAI is attempt­ing to do. 
. "What the hell are you guys trying to do over there?" asked one recent government called to NCAI head­quarters. 
"Purely and simply," responded Vocu, "we're only carrying out the mandate of our constituency and that's to do everything possible at the national level to work for Indian people."
1 The June 1970 OMBE Report to the President on Minority Business Enter­prise states that the agency exists " ... t0 foster the economic status and the . pride ·of members of our -minority groups ... Blacks, Mexican-Americans, Puerto Ricans, Indians and others" which, it continues, "must increasingly be encourgaed to enter the•field of bus­iness both in the areas where they now l~ve and in the larger commercial com­11j1unity-not only as workers, but also as managers and owners." (The title of the publication(" A Piece ofthe Action.") 
"That's all the NCAI is fighting for," declared Vocu, "a piece of the OMBE action. If they're going to mention us (American Indians) on almost every page of their report as being in on this action, then we want to make damn sure we are." 
by Rose Robinson
•}IK. 


GREAT WHITE FATH~R 


18 IND/AN VOICE 

NATIVE AMEBIC 
by Al Whiteman (Arapahoe-Cheyenne) 
Al Whiteman was born in Colony, homa, the great-grandson of Chief Raven, a signer of the treaty of cine Lodge of 1867. He attende~ • homa State Technical College '" mulgee and studied commercial art, since finishing has worked as 8 . mercial artist, as well as a prof_e~ed artist. His work has been exhibit 



1 
; 5 in Oklahoma, North Dakota, xico, and at the National Indian 

ow H · · 
· e is well-known in the Ok­

a area and h' . . 
d hi h . ' 1~ paintings com­111" 9 figures. His work is marked 1:nt col~r~; his themes are por­'thYmbollst1cally. Each · work is 
1 
me · 

1 9_ aning, and their impact is 

20 IND/AN VOICE 

CLEAR SKIES Indian Prose by Darryl Wilson (Pit River) 
Mist hung calmly upon the morning sea. The water was alive with small ripples. The wind blew softly bending the tall grass and nodding the flowers. Upon the mountains to the west the deer walked the quiet forest. Across the prairie the buffalo, huge and black, moved in wide rivers. Past the moun­tains that made a jagged horizon in the far west and down the other side to the rushing wild rivers, the eagle soared, searching the world. The clean waters coiling through the rugged can­yons danced with silver salmon. The rivers forked and branched out like arteries sliced in half the long way show­ing the beginning of life. 
At this time there was no date. There was no beginning. There was no end. Neither was there month, day, hour. The land was wide. It was fresh and pure. The rivers ran free. The sky was blue---:--unless the splrits made clouds to rain and clean the face of the land. 
The eagle caught t e rabbit. The deer browsed the forest. 'rhe lion took the weak from the bands of deer. The spirits that yet guide the destiny of the people fed the earth-children. 
Sun spirit signalled· morning. The day awoke slowly, reluctantly. As with­out apparent necessi,y, the ·sun looked over the edge of the world on a land sleeping like a child. It came to life slowly. Stretched, moved an eyelash, took a deep breath that was sweet as mountain spring water. The eyes opened. The heart responded. A smile moved across the land like a baby's face in the crib when it knows mother and father are watching and whispering about him. And the land blossomed as the sun brightened all the world. 

The skies were clear and the morn­ing's soft-gold turned to lavender and blue in ·the mountains, and greens and darker greens in the forests and black under the trees. Here birds found seeds, shelter and homes. They rested above the ground ruffling their feathers as sleep left their bodies. 
The open meadow moved softly as the wind bent the leaves of grass. The clean waters moved through the forest and left the timber's edge to sparkle in deep banked streams through the grassy opening. A movement in the shadows! A white flash. Deer. They moved softly on sharp toes. Alert eyes deep and 
h rmvn nPP.reti ~crm:l. the oneninl! as 

they moved towards water. Ears, huge and elm leaf-like tested the morning sounds for danger. A fawn on arrow­head feet, bounced behind its mother. The spotted deer was the young land. The morning. The breath of the sleep­ing baby. 
A hundred doves exploded from the quietly roaring cedars and banked sharply up over the hills where the tops oftrees with bare branches reached skyward-penitent to Great Spirit. 
A thick shadow. It glided through the trees. Were I a dove, I would also flee. It looked from side to side. Search­ing. Hunting. Hunger· drove it to seek blood. With a slight movement, it caught the breeze and turned sharply skyward to land on a fir limb. · It stretched powerful wings as though waking, and the sharp eyes surveyed the world. The hook-sharp beak was clearly visible. The head darted left and right. The feathers smoothed. As though wiping its nose, the claws came up and met the beak halfway. Then it came to a resting position. The black-brown hawk was motionless. The yellow eyes stared. And life went on. 
It~ould be thousands of years 

the first word of the Bible was w . 
With. puffs of dust the golden n rel of big eyes, raced around the r and through the bushes. The could not see through the t branches. The rodent darted in black hole after a glance aroun ~as quick. A batting of the eyelash 1t was gone. Safe. 
Over the calm water the clo 

moved slowly. They were white 
soft. Friendly. As necessary as sight 
the hawk. Quiet as love between yo 
mother and baby. Great Spirit held 
land close in peace. 
The canoe silently moved across face of the water. It left a trail of lo "V" marks parting the ripples. U the branches of the poplar tr swam. A brown hand with large ve· blunt with rounded fingers, slo moved a flat paddle. The paddle d not clear the water. Heavy bo shoulders moved slightly. The m reacted like those of the yellow mo tain lion. Soft and smooth. 
The canoe inched under the branc of the trees and rested on the sho Without effort, it moved sideways came flush with the bank. A mo..__ reached out and softly touched land. The brown body shifted wei from the canoe to the grasses gro · near the water's edge. Ripples mo across the water. 
Naked in the summer light the bro man stood. Only a cloth covering privates. A headband held the lo black hair in place. Like a wolf, man's nose tested the air. Like a ha the man's eyes surveyed the land. · the deer, the ears told him the sto of the morning. He saw the hawk. Be­fore that he heard the doves hurry awa 
The clouds moved over the land. H took the bow and quivver and becalDI the forest. He was the hunter. It his duty to take the life of a de~r. 
The animal did not know for it co not hear him approach. It did not b the whispering arrow. It only fel~ point enter the rib cage, then the VI (i It panicked and ran into the dark or­est. Blood, bright in the light, splot;.ed, the leaves. It fell in the shade a~d di and the hunter found the slain 
It was yet warm. t 
The people lived. The hunter food to the old woman who no 

n. He took to the lead~r. What -a!118 sed his woman -, dned and 
not u ' 1~~
"::..red for winter. But ue went 01;1. ~~ n turing of nature, the pamc 'Jbe ru~ony by the frightened deer, iO ~ ha bing of the land by the drop-. ~ d:}u~lood and the claw~ng of ~he piOI the necessity of takmg a hfe, bOves, doned in the heart of the brown ~use he spoke to the deer in _.. nd he spoke to the spirits that ~: land. His heart sorrowed that ~ 1,eautiful life, must end so other ~e, uld continue. He prayed so the lif! .co that kept life in the deer would q,en: harsh in judging him. He offered ~ ine from his pouch. His spirits 
. ~. Harmony again ruled the wide 
0 

dllin,
This time was many thousands of before the brown man walked 0~ Galilee, which is water in a 
far land. 
As the sun rose from the shining mountains and looked upon . t~e deep valley to where the many t1p1s were placed by the brown-skinned people, and the sky was as clean as the sleeping 

ters of the fresh mountain spring, and the morning was damp-yet wait­ing the warmth of the sun spirit-the 
ck bear of little ears looked from the blue ridge across the vast prairies to the south. There the buffalo dotted the land. And the golden land rolled 
yin the distance until it formed the edge of the world. 
Faint spirals came from the tipis. A dog barked and pranced playfully in front of the home where the brownbo' slept. It was morning. Time the 

hild came out to play. In the distance and over the early smoke, a baby cried. And life a thousand years later and a thousand miles from the eastern ocean 
ton. 
The black of the canyons gave way to purple and blue and green. The pop­. trees flutte~ed as the morning breeze ~ever so_lightly the spinning leaves. . black bird of red spotted wings ~from the tulies. Muscrat moved barkedsafety of the river bank. Coyoteblend farwell to the half-moon that ~nearly wit~ the transparent sky. Ind bl Pcame to life. Horses whinnied for thcw as t~e brown people prepared ornc: ~~nmg of the buffalo. The r uilt fires. Old men made ar-
O

~ ~hers made good medicine. citanc~t Y:d. ~he young prepared. Ex­like t: ew ~n the heart quickly. It On th e rapid beating of the drums. b•-..1 e glolden hills the black buffalo 
1q1 a ong b •
llllalJ bru h rowsi_ng grasses and 8 • They switched flies with 

rope-like tails. Huge bulls shook mas­sive heads with stubby, curved black horns. They bellowed and breathed. They did not know the brown people already offered prayers to Great Spirit so the hunters would return ·with fresh meat. 
Sharp yips! in the morning chill. Ar­rows noiselessly cutting through the early light to the target. Thundering buffalo fleeing the agressor. Some had to die so life could go on. 
And as quickly as the disturbance began, and the hunter returned to the camp with meat for the people, skins for robes and shelter, harmony returned to the land. And life a thousand years later and a thousand miles from the mountains continued. And the spirits smiled upon the land. Sun moved across the sky as it had for millions of years. 
In a distant land a man walked across the waters. He was hung upon a cross. The people mocked him. He woke from the dead as the sun wakes the sleeping morning. He was a brown-skinned man. The son of God. Savior, they called him. 
The sun was overhead. Leaves of the trees on the eastern mountains were red and gold. Carpets of colors lay across the foothills. The thousand peaks were bright with early snow. The wind was sharp. Waters tumbled and churned down the mountains towards the salty ocean. In the rivers were many fish. The huge shiriing fish were again trying to leap the thundering waters falling from the cliff. Someday one great chief fish will make it over the pouring water. 
A brown man gathered the salmon. He took the fish home and gave to the old and weak, the blind and lame. They gave in return a respected nod of the head, a friendly glance from deep brown eyes, a quick smile. The strong young man was happy. His heart cried. The people ate. Spirits were good. Life con­tinued in harmony. 
In the darkness of the ending day the sky turned to orange and gold. Long clouds lay flat against the hori­zon. Great Spirit painted the canvass in the west most beautiful. A reminder that life ends surely as life begins­and it is a beautiful thing. Coyote called to silver moon round in the dark sky. 
The old people spoke quietly in the darkness around the fire of times long ago. They spoke to· the spirits. All ears listened. · The young learned from the old. 
IND/AN VOICE 21 

Wisdom was the wealth of the people. Wisdom and the prayers to Great Spirit. Faith was brother to wisdom. 
The fire slept. West no longer was painted. It was dark. The pipe no longer smoked. Young people stretched out around the sleeping fire. The old moved away in the darkness 'to their resting places. They spoke to the spirits for the young, and slept. Life and silent harmony was over all the world. 
In a distant land the people had been worshipping the-man-who-walked­upon-the-waters for more than a thou­sand years. 
From the east to the west the land was free. Harmony was peace and peace was over all the land as the air is in all places. And this is how it was until the coming of the white man. He came only moments ago. No longer does he believe the man in a distant land died for his sins. He believes only in killing. Kill the land-the water-the air-the animals-the spirits-the people! 
No longer is there harmony in the 
land. The spirits turn away from the 
evil one. The bad changes have been 
quickly. They must end quickly. 
One member of the white serpent 
clan now asks what can be done: 
Perhaps what we need now is for some great rich democratic nation to export its values to us, and its advisors, to teach us democracy, to . help us with our values and institutions. 
That "nation" is in the land now. It 
has been here for more years than there 
are leaves on a stand of huge elm trees. 
Yet you refuse to listen to the brown­
skinned man who for a hundred thou­
sand years dwelled in peace and · har­
mony in this land that has been mur­
dered in less than 500! 
Life now stands still. Hesitating. 
Questioning. Doubting. Ruled by fear. 
Dying lonely. Your ears are deaf. Your 
eyes look beyond the shores for another 
"savior" and you look in vain. 
In the far west the brown hand 
reaches out to you. Not in penitence 
or for money, but with pride and con­
cern nearing panic. The bigot looks at 
the brown hand and grows sick with 
hate. The Congressman scoffs and the 
President mocks. 
Look back to the times before 
1492. Judge them. And after your 
judgement, think long before you call 
the brown man incompetent! 


_}ft{ 



Fishing Rights 
co-plaintiffs poured into court. Virtu­ally every tribal government in the state now has asked to join the suit against the state, and so have a number of in-. dividual Indians. The U.S. attorney's office attempted to summarize the list of intervenors, but even as the report was filed, more had poured in. The case is proceeding on two fronts now -intervenors must file briefs outlining their claims, and an appeal of rejection of an intervention attempt by the Com­mittee To Save Our Fish is being con­sidered in San Francisco. 
Meanwhile, last April, at the request of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the In­terior Department's solicitor's office, which handles the bureau's legal affairs, issued a well-publicized opinion that claimed that while reservation land al­lotted to individual Indians may have been sold out of Indian ownership, the Indians and their heirs had not forfeited their unique status as Indian people. And the opinion explained that the heirs of the Indian signers of the Medicine Creek Treaty still had an exclusive fish­ing right within the boundaries of the original Puyallup Indian reservation. 
Claim Disputed 
Whether there remains a Puyallup reservation has been disputed in the state courts, and the concept and im­plications of an historic reservation still in existence eludes many non-In­dians. But the opinion elated many Puyallup Indian people and their sup­porters. 
Even before the opinions were writ­ten it was accepted di.at part of the City of Tacoma lay inside Indian trust land -or vice versa. In fact, the small site · has been used as tax-free no-man's land by an enterprising trio of Indian en­trepreneurs who have done an em­battled landoffice business selling un­taxed cigarettes to bumper-to-bumper lines of carloads of whites. 
Hoping to evict the smokeshop op­erators and establish a lucrative tribally operated sales center that would bring revenue to an all-but impoverished tri­bal government, the council formally declared the operators to be without any agreement to occupy the land. It asked the U.S. attorney's office in Se­attle to evict them. 
Any non-Indian citizen knows the wheels of government turn slowly, and not always in the right direction. But when weeks passed without action, some members of the tribal council re­acted in a manner not unreasonable of 

an often-persecuted people. Grumb­lings ranged from "racist do-nothings" to "federal plots to terminate our tribal status" to implications of somebody 
being "on the take." 
At an equally sovereign but perhaps 
less professional level, a tribal govern­
ment without paid officers, without · 
staff, without even a filing cabinet it 
can call its own, moves ponderously 
through red tape. Its officials meet 
evenings, after they come home from 
jobs, and tend to their families. They 
must draw at least five people together 
across many miles to discuss problems, 
much less act on them. The tribal gov­
ernment must broadcast its bulletins 
to its citizens via telephone or word of 
mouth. It must deal with two other 
governments which are hostile and 


subtly intent on their destruction, le­gally if not literally. And throughout it attempts to retain an identity as a nation often invisible to its non-Indian neighbors, incomprehensible if noticed at all. 
For instance, how would a Washing­ton, D.C., bureaucrat deal with the re­cent balloting of nearly 100 people who, in the words of the Puyallup In­dian who successfully directed the elec­tion, "won't stand in line?" 
The non-Indian person may have difficulty perceiving the sense of free­dom that is embodied in a spirit that "won't stand in line." 
Stand in Line 
But many of the Puyallup Indian people do stand in line if that is the price to achieve a goal. Tribal Chair­man Matheson, perhaps guided by the persistent if impatient and outspoken tribal adviser, Homer S~ttler., ~-YJlkima Indian, carries the council business in wh~tever line is required to achieve its 
ends. 

And so the groundwork waa slm-.1\v but surely, for the ho eviction. of th~ smoke shop oner.•...:-· That matter is now in U.S.·~~ Court. 
The groundwork also was laid slowly and less surely, for suppon fi the federal government in enf orcina Puyallup Tribal fishing re . upon the tribal population and the Indian fishermen. But the attaa . given to the, salescenter operation cost valuable time. Vacations also . tervened, along with visits by co ineri to Indian gatherings .and hours of consultation with lead other tribes on a variety of issues. 
Not the least of these was the p ration of a proposal circulated five South Puget Sound tribes­Puyallups, the Nisquallys, M shoots, Skokomish and Squaxin landers-that they ask the federal ernment to investigate the economic sources of the tribal lands. Suppo among both the Indian peopl federal agencies point to the co cial razor-clam harvest of the aults and the Aquaculture operation 
the Lummis an examples of what dian-f ederal teamwork can do. 
Fish Hatchery 
The concept of a federal fish ha on Indian land somewhere in the also has been proposed, ap fanned by fears that the state may draw its hatchery operations from reservation-controlled streams if dian claims to the fishing right win in the courts. 
On Aug. 12, the Bureau of S Fisheries and Wildlife arranged later called an "historic" mee the five tribes in the Puyallup co 
hall. The bureau presented a. pa,rer titled "Inter-Tribal Resolution . 
it said was made up of suggesuo fered by tribal delegates at P meetings. It suggested they 1-r proposal back to their tribes an 
public discussion of the resour tion concept. all But critics within the Puy up bal Council vehemently oppo 
plan, denouncing it as a Bureau dian Affairs plot that would t the powers of the tribes. T~ey Sia 
that the BIA inserts certain ~ all its tribal pal?erwork t~atal . in further forfeiture of tnb practice some assert ~ost thep · Tribe its rightful claim t~ ;y.fiance and Commencemen said they feared a hatchery 


'(be .als~and will mean the hatchery 
1nd1an the U.S. Bureau of Sports rat~r:nd Wildlife-will either de­
ne he river below the hatchery 

,_ all t " d h.b. 
,.. ..rniIJing area an so pro i it e t there, or else turn the hatch­rv t'on over to the state, all of
rat . h
ncies do not enJoy t e con­n 3Jall Indian peoples. The critics 
ed out. .


peaceful Solution 

aceful solution-o! at the ve:y 

truce-in the fishmg wars still ~~a possi~ility. The Departme~t Fi heries Jet 1t_ be known t~~t until 
f deral position w~s clarified on rvation-boundanes controversy, 

in effect turning its back on In­n fi hing in the Puyallup. Control h Puyallup was in the co~rts. 
Di u ions between an emissary of Pu allup tribe and Fisheries officers 1 n impression that the tribe would n to uggestions about its fishing lation if delivered in a proper nn r. The issue seemed to be a mat­r f face.'' That left as a protagonist ame Department, which controls river when sportsmen's coveted 
lhead run. 
anwhile, rumors of the coalition l had spread through the Puy­Uup tribe-the talks between federal 1 r and delegates of all five Indian had not been publicized during tr arly stages. Then construction ne rearing ponds at a fish hatchery nn rumors that a federal hatchery 
lready begun. A group of Indian rmen visited the site, apprehensive ign which prominently declared 

Predator Will Be Shot Day 0; I I ' 
t. t was obvious that the present h ry would triple in size. 



Suspect Plot 

The manager of the site explained the operation was a privately owned rainbow-trout hatchery that produces eggs to sell to "meat" hatcheries all private. It was not being built b; the government, and was not being built to be sold to the government, he main­tained. 
But suspicions of a plot by federal enemies of a sovereign Indian people persisted. A petition was circulated de­man?ing an end to "secret" meetings to discuss the fish resource with any other agencies without permission of the tribal membership. Matheson, who had hoped for tribal support for the resource study plan, realized the issue could split the tribe. 
That split burst into the open a week later when what has come to be known as "The I I-Page Letter" was released to the press. Ostentatiously a letter to Matheson and the council, it was a summation of Puyallup tribal issues, submitted over the signature of Suzette Bridges Mills, a young enrolled Puy­allup woman who is a resident of Frank's Landing on the Nisqually River. 
The letter began with the explana­tion that "there are several matters of Puyallup tribal affairs upon which I would like to express my concern...." Then followed five pages of single­spaced, typed discussions of "Lawsuits & Litigation Involving the Puyallup Tribe & Tribal Rights & Lawyers." 
The letter was critical of the tribal council's activity, or lack of it, concern­ing the federal suit challenging state control of Indian fishing rights, and a number of direct questions asking where the council looked for its advice. 

More Criticism 

Then followed two pages of criticism of the tribal fishing regulations, a half­page of support for the resources study, a page to discuss the proposed tribal sales operation arid two pages of dis­cussion of council procedures, finan­cial responsibility, recall procedure and query about the status of tribal funds. 
That same morning, the Committee to Save Our Fish announced that it w~mld place a drift net in the Puyallup River to protest "uncontrolled fishing by Indians." It vowed a non-violent program, and called for large numbers of sportsmen and supporters to attend. 
At almost that same moment, Mathe-. son was meeting in Olympia with Gov. Evans, discussing the fish controversy and anticipated confrontations. 
IND/AN VOICE 23 


At 7 that evening a delegation from the State Department of Game at­tempted to meet with the Puyallup Tri­bal Council to discuss the salmon con­troversy. The department had re­quested the meeting, an official said later. 
Four men were in the Game Depart­
ment party that arrived at the Coun­
cil's meeting hall. 

More Join In 

They asked to keep details of the discussion confidential, but agreed to acknowledge the meeting after the fact. But the ~atchery-plan critics, mostly commercial fishermen on the tribal Fish Committee, demanded to be in on the talks. Matheson agreed they had a stake in the discussions. In a compro­mise, the committee was allowed to send two delegates to join the game officers and the five members of the council. But when the parties went into the council hall, a delegation of coali­tion-plan opponents was already seated. They refused to leave. 
Twelve minutes after they had ar­rived, the Game Department delega­tion was in its car and gone. Mathe­son said the department would attempt to arrange the talks again. 
Matheson then called a scheduled meeting of the Fish Committee. But with so many people on hand he said he might as well include them ~s a com: mittee of the whole. And the meeting was orderly and deliberate. 
Matheson moved the committee formally but easily through the issues of the Game Department meeting, the resources-coalition proposal and the 11-Page Letter. Copies of the letter 
(Over) . 


were passed out to the tribal member­ship by Mrs. Maiselle Bridges, Suzette's mother, also of Frank's Landing, who brought a stack of them three inches high to the meeting. It was obvious they could hardly be glanced at during the meeting, much less assimilated, but nevertheless Matheson used the letter as a springboard to open a dis­cussion of several of the topics. Then he suggested a general meeting be called. 
Claims Letter 

"Let Suzette speak on her letter," urged one woman who was obviously a critic of it. Then Hank Adams, an Assiniboine-Sioux who is married to Suzette's sister Alison, took the floor and said, "You all know I wrote that letter." He discussed the issues briefly, apparently content to wait for assimi­lation of his summary by tribal mem­bers before full discussion of them. 
Then Matheson brought up the mat­ter of the planned demonstration by the Committee to Save Our Fish. 
The meeting concluded with the council armed with a resolution direct­ing that a tribal police force be formed to· counter the . announced drift-net fishing. 
The U.S. attorney's office took the planned demonstration into U.S. Dis­trict Court in Tacoma. It asked for but was denied a temporary restraining order against the committee's demon­stration. Simultaneously, it asked a declaratory judgment from the court on the recent solicitor's opinion on the scope of the surviving Indian rights. 
A technicality in the certification of the tribal fishing regulation-it had never formally been presented to the BIA-prevented the bureau from pro­viding federal enforcement of tribal regulations at the fish-in. 
In effect disarmed by the two federal agencies he felt had assured him they would support the tribal position, Matheson nevertheless attempted to convene a council meeting to declare, perhaps, emergency enforcement pow­ers under the tribe's sovereign status. But even that was stymied when only two council members showed up­himself and Ramona Bennett, another Frank's Landing resident. Whether the three other members had avoided the meeting deliberately to foil a legal con­frontation was not immediately clear, but its effect was certain. Matheson did not have his court nor his hoped­for power to deputize tribal police. 
Sought Support 

By 10 p.m. Saturday Matheson, still determined to assert the sovereignty of the Puyallup Indian Tribe in the face . 
of overwhelming numbers of white sports fishermen and their supporters, continued to seek support. At 10 p.m. he telephoned James Dolliver, aide to the governor. Dolliver promised to come to the council center at 10 a.m. Sunday. 
It was determined that a small party of Indian men would approach the drift net and the sports fishermen; they would attempt to confiscate the net, at the very least, and perhaps a boat or car, if feasible. 
A non-Indian observer speculated on the scene that might greet them Sun­day: An-open arena, surrounded by arms-wise outdoorsmen, flanked by pickup trucks and campers that could conceal scores more. Armed with the technical wealth of a white, affluent' middle-class society, the sportsmen could be well-supplied with boats, mo­tors-and arms. 
Anticipated Outcome 

In the absence of federal or local law-enforcement officers, with order riding only on the promise of peace by the leader of a group of men unsym­pathetic to the Indian cause, the only outcome that could be anticipated if a small party of Indian men attempted to seize the sportsmen's net was physi­cal resistance. To what degree, no one said. 
Matheson said he would go up the river Sunday and meet the challenge to his tribe. He asked for volunteers. "Will you go with mer' he asked one young_ man. 
"Not empty-handed," the man re­

plied. ....,..._.,.........____...,. 
"--.. 

"How about you?" he asked a Not unarmed, was the ob . 
sponse. VIo Matheso? arose. "We'll go,,, b ~y mornmg the sky had clearcc1 
surmg a large turnout on th . bank. Dolliver met for two ho Matheson. 
Dolliver left about noon, and 
after that Matheson began to the word among his people that would be no Indian response to trespass upon their historic fi · ground. There would be no confro 
· tion. And there would be no vio 
He was heeded. The Indian fi men, already off the river two da cording to their tribal regulation, mained away Sunday. The young stayed away. 
A number of Indian men, and children, later identified Seattle group" did show up to the proceedings and as the aftem wore on engaged in debate, often the boiling point, with the bi fishermen. 
Evans Criticized 

Matheson arrived later to see if orders were heeded, his pride ob ·o stung by his own decision. 
The governor drew criticism both sportsmen and Indians. 1b called a meeting of the sportsm n invited the governor "to explain the state can't enforce its own . against unrestricted Indian net fi in the river. 
And Homer Settler, ·tribal a went to Olympia to discuss the 
( e t 




g Rights 
esentative of the governor, 


·th a repr success. He was invited to ut ~etJe~fries, the governor's adviser Bidll. affairs but Settler declined 
n In ,an . ' 
Ik with him. 

t Id be a real big thing if the 
It wou d k
ever had to step out an ta e rn_or tand on defending the Indian 
1

ub ic s "d "H d 't d
ie ,, Settler sa1 . d~' oesn are. 

P
Hi name would be mu among non-
I in. h . d"
while, Adams, w o 1s irectorn
ea A . I d.

f h urvival of the mencan n ian 
t eiation, announced that his group oppo ing the structur~ of thebc~u­t 1 emg
tribal fishing regu at10ns as 

n .
dequate and unsmte d to proper con-
r Iof the fishery resour~e: Hts gr?up i preparing recall petitions agamst of the council me~bers, he said.
0
nd hi group is supporting a four­ri proposal to consolidate the eco­nomic re ources of the tribes of South Pu t ound. 
Under Fire 

theson, who is president of the ur ival group, immediately came und r fire from the Puyallups for his re tion hip •with it. Simultaneously, 
the on was pressured by the Sur­. I group-dubbed "that Frank's nding bunch" by opponents-for upport of tribal adviser Settler nd Council Vice Chairman Silas 
r . Cross has been blamed by some 
ral agency observers for a council reluctance to deal with them since the 
Bu u oflndian Affairs two years ago 
d to certify a tribal election in hich Cross was elected chairman in claiming technicalities in the red 
The governor had scheduled a meet­m in_ his office Monday with repre­ntatives of the Committee to Save 
Our Fi h. 

The question of state law is one t can and is being superseded by ral law," Evans said. "And I simply 0 not ":lieve that these sport fisher­n real~ze all of these implications li ~rtamly if they do realize the im­
tions, t~en I question frankly what are domg." an d" 
. isclosed that his office has 

n havmg · .
meetmgs with Indian lead­-a sportsmen have charged as 
cooled the1· h 1 . .
d . r ee s m capitol corri­
~ :signed. to assure "the maxi-a 7of salmon on each salmon 

. ns1stent · h
co wit enough salmon 
Upstream t0 k .

"lbg . eep the run gomg." 
e 1nd1an · 

hatasth s are Just as interested e sportsmen and the state," 

Evans said. "We have had sorrie initial conversations and I hope of it we will get some reasonable approach that will achieve this end." 
River Blocked 

One of Evans' fisheries officers, Supt. George Houston, told a Seattle newsman this week not one adult fish has reached the Orting hatchery, and he fears Indian nets are virtually block­ing the river. 
Thorpe explained, as he declined to respond to the governor's statements, that the hatchery has 50 male spring­run chinooks from the White River awaiting the early fall chinooks ex­pected weeks ago up the Puyallup. They will be cross-bred to create an "in-Sound chinook" that will live in Puget Sound all its life, Thorpe said. 
"If we feel that the state doesn't uphold the law ( on Indian fishing) and we can't get any response from the governor on this," he said, "we'll prob­ably have to continue with this (the demonstrations) to make the status quo for white sportsman and Indian alike." 
Barring announcement of new dem­onstrations by the sportsmen, the Puy­allup Tribal Council appears willing, like the state, to leave the issues be­fore the courts. Settler had the tenta­tive approval of Matheson to complain to the U.S. court commissioner in Washington, D.C., that Judge Boldt, by not issuing the restraining order Friday night, had not enforced the Medicine Creek treaty of 1854. 
In the midst of this, beser by three governments, temporarily disarmed, torn by a dedication to a future for his people that he puts before his pride, Matheson announced a meeting that perhaps can serve to bring all of the problems back into human perspective. The general meeting, certain to be a showdown between "the Fife Puy­allups" and "the Frank's Landing bunch," has been postponed because "there's going to be a weding in the Cross family and everybody's going." from Tacoma, Wn. News-Tribune August 26, 1971 
~· 
IND/AN VOICE 25 

Lumbees Active · (From page 11) promote local Indian representation in all national, state and local Indian ac­tivities and affairs. Other activities in­clude the request to Congress for an 
, amendment to the Bill of 1956, which gave the Lumbees a name with no rights and privileges as Indians, which is discriminatory, and a pending re­quest for an economic development program from the U.S. Office of Eco­nomic Opportunity. A community in­formation service to inform minority businessmen of small business oppor­tunities and programs to expand busi­nesses and enterprises and overall com­munity development is included in the request. The conduct of these programs and an evaluation and assessment of their accomplishment will have implications for future planning and development of Indian programs across the nation consistent with the President's message to Congress to give Indians more con­trol over their own affairs and the op­portunity and resources to develop their communities. The process which is shaping LRDA is identification of local leadership and using this leadership to build group unity. These activities, together with the exposure and contact with other Indian groups and tribes, neglected in the past due to geographic isolation, are building a new Indian awareness and familiarity with Indian culture which will enhance the heritage of the Indians in Robeson County. Federal grants totalling $260,000 have been made to the organization, the first time in history that the Fed­eral government has become involved in the many problems of the Lumbee. 
~~ by Ruth Dial Roberts 




BEEADYA D S BEADS 

Chainette Fringe on Spools 
Large Selections of Craft Items 
Special Prices for Quantity Purchases 
AT 

Larry's Costume & Novelty Co. 1645 W. San Carlos Street San Jose, Calif. 95128 
Phone: 283-6036 
Credit Cards Accepted 


Activists Win (From page 5) 
So the result of the attempt by the old-liners to maintain the status quo is that divergent groups of Indians have gotten together to fight for change, and the new organizational structure wanted by the Commissioner, while modified by Interior, is apparantly going to come out at least partly the way he wanted it. 
Although Crow got to design the new organizational structure, the Commis­sioner got to fill the jobs with people he wanted, and to transfer some of the old-liners out of the Washington Office. Bruce did this by announcing the new officers at the NCAI annual conven­tion, which was held November 14-20 in Reno. There he made the announce­ments on his own, without prior In­terior approval, and came back to Washington with strong support for his choices from Indians all over the country, hoping that the grass roots support would enable him to gain ap­proval of his choices by Interior, and keep his own job as well. His strategy will apparently work; he told reporters two day later he was "very confident" his choices would be approve, and that he had been given strong assurance ofit. 
Among the changes Bruce is trying to win and make permanent are eco­nomic development on reservations, rather than sending Indians into the citeis to be lost in the urban scene; al­lowing tribes to contract services; job training on the reservations; and hold­ing the line on the loss of Indian land and water. 
To the end, Ernie Stevens was trans­ferred to Economic Development, re­flecting the Commissioner's trust and confidence in his. Calvin Bryce, who had headed up the office which ap­proved contracts to tribes, was trans­ferred to Phoenix as the deputy Area Director. Alexander (Sandy) McNabb, one of the original Indian team and an activist, became the assistant commis­sioner of engineering and construction with a mandate to complete much~ needed roadbuilding and irrigation projects on reservations. 
Stevens was also given control of the job training program, plus the newly­created office which has been set up to defend tribal water rights. 
As usual, there was no clear-cut vic­tory in this comedy, but there may have been a moral. The moral seems to be: There will be no teal changes in Indian affairs until Indian people themselves take 9ver the operations.

}IK' 

The Lumbee Story 
As a result of discrimination by local whites, or because of a carry-over from Indian traditions, or . both, there is a noticeable lack of formal government among the Lumbees. The political pro­cess, at least on important issues requir­ing state or national legislation, largely operates by delegations representing the various clans visiting the capitals or the offices of the legislators to pressure for or against legislation. In between the crises of the important issue, the com­munity is largely politically dormant, voting in the local and national elec­tions, but not pushing for or nominating Indian candidates for local office. There are exceptions to this rule, but they are rare and are all within the past two decades. 
The Lumbee Indians are a rarity in the United States; they are a native group which has endured and to some extent prospered in an area 100 miles from the earliest sites of European col­onization. But they are not racially homogeneous; the Indian origins of the present-day tribe probably came from six or more Siouan-speaking tribes, who intermarried with whites as well as Blacks. There is much confusion and speculation about their origins, which can probably not be inferred from source documents. Their social status has varied over time from being slave­holders (Barton, Footnote 7) to being denied citizenship rights of voting, own­ing or bearing arms. They are still insfr­tutionally and partly geographically seg­regated, although they receive no Fed­eral services and have no Federal trust land. But in general they differ from other Indians in that they have no pre­served Indian language, and behavioral traits only generally classifiable as In­dian customs. 
Bibliography 

Barton, Lew, The Most Ironic Story in American History; Charlotte: Asso­ciated Printing Corporation, 1967 
Berry, Brewton, Almost White; New York: The Macmillan Company, 1963 
Crane, Verner, The Southern Fron­tier; Durham: Duke University Press, 1929 
Evans, W. McKee, To Die Game; Baton Rouge: Louisiana State Uni­versity Press, 1971 
Hawks, Francis, History of North Carolina; Vol. I. Fayetteville, North Carolina: E.J. Hale & Son, 1858 · 
Hawks, Francis, History of North Carolina; Vol. II. Fayetteville, North Carolina: E.J. Hale & Son. 1858 
Lawson, John, A New · JI, Carolina; Chapel Hill: The U . of North Carolina, 1967 
Lee, Lawrence, Indian War: . Carolina 1663-1763· Ral ~Ill Carolina Charter Te;cente eigh; mission, 1963 nary 
Lee, Lawrence, The Lo 
D • 
Cl we,

rear zn o oma . 1 Days· Cha 
The University ofNorth Carot:~ 1965 &UJil 
Lefler, Hugh Talmage North lina History Told By C~nte,n 
Chapel Hill: The University: Carolina Press, 1965 McMillan, Hamilton, Sir Raleigh's Lost Colony; Raleigh: 
wards & Broughton Printing Co Milling, Chapman J., Red ., ians; Chapel Hill: University of Carolina Press, 1940 
Myer, William E. Indian n the Southeast; Forty-Second Report, 1924-25. Bureau of Am.....;• Ethnology, Washington: 1928 
Oxendine, Clifton, A Social anti nomic History of the Indians of son County North Carolina,· M.A. sis, George Peabody Colle Teachers, 1934 
Rights, Douglas L., The A Indian in North Carolina; w· 
Salem: John F. Blair, 1957 Rights, Douglas and Cumming. liam, The Discoveries ofJohn Charlottesville: University of v· Press, 1958 Swanton, John R., Early Hist the Creek Indians and Their Nei 
Washington: U.S. Government ing Office, 1922 
Swanton, John R., The Indian of North America; Washington: Government Printing Office, 1952 
Holloman, Charles R., (1) "Fort horoco, We The People, 1969, Raleigh, North Carolina 
Holloman, Charles R., (2) "P and Tuscaroras," We The Peopk, ary 1966, Raleigh, North Caroliaa 
Holloman, Charles R., (3) rora Towns in Bath County, WI People, February 1966, Raleigh, Carolina 
Holloman, Charles R., (4) " tionary Forces in the Tuscarora We The People, March 1966, North Carolina 
The Indian Historian; Vol. I, June 1968, San Francisco 



IPA NEWS FEATURE 
HINGTON, D.C. _:_(AI~A)­. e largest settleme~t m the in~ U.S.-Native. relations,_ that 
ryAla ka Native claims, was si~ned laW here Dec. 18 by President 
rd M. Nixon. . · Iegi lation provides Alaska N~­. h 40 million acres of land m 
It ·11· . .r d

pie title, $462.5 mi 10n i~ 1~ ­ppropriati?ns, and $500 milhon mineral royahtes. . . 
Alaska Federat10n of Natives, ative voice of Alaska, an hour .0 u to the President's signature mmunicated to him the AFN ptance of the bill by a vote of 511 . ixon had promised to veto the if it proved unacceptable to AFN 
r hip. 

'd the President in a special com­unique to assembled AFN delegates: J nt you to be the first to know I have just signed the Alaska Na­laim Settlement Act. It is a mile-
o 
in Alaska history, and in the way 

o 
emment deals with Native and · n peoples... we developed this bill, Vice Pres­t ( piro T.) Agnew and I were in onsultation with your president, n right. Don ably and vigorously nted you in Washington. My 


n tulations also go to Sen. Ted ns to Wally Hickel, and to those th parties who helped. Best wishes 
our convention." The claims bill on Dec. 14 had 

· cd final approval from both the and the House and was for­to the White House for signa­
only member of the joint House­conference committee who had to sign the committee report g the bill was Rep. John Saylor, who stated the settlements 
re "too high a price."

10 

. a press statement Dec. 14 AFN 
· ' 
on Wnght had praise for Congress who had on the bill for a duration of the question of by Alaska Natives open to llnined AFN delegations con­e Week's end in Alaska. 

... .__. ..... :. •.. • ......... .. ............ ~ .............. . 
. In a speech before the Colorado River Water Users Association in Las Vegas, Nev., recently Commissioner EllisL. Armstrong of the Bureau of Reclama­tion provided the timetable on the con­struction ofthe Central Arizona Project (CAP) which is stirring deep fears and controversy among the Southwest tribes. "Funds to initiate construction of the Central Arizona Project have been released," Armstrong told the water users, "and start of construction on this project may be anticipated as soon as contract negotiations, now underway, are concluded-hopefully within the next several months." CAP's overall projected cost for diversion of the Colorado River to the cities of ·, Phoenix and Tuscon for industrial and municipal use is set at $1.2 billion. Ellis did not touch on the thorny issue of Indian water rights. 
~ _

... ...... ..........•...... _. ....... ·~:·.......... ... . 
·A partially rewritten Indian Education i bill sponsored by Sen. Henry M. Jack­son, D-Wash., will be the subject of hearings during the second session of • the 92nd Congress when it reconvenes in late winter. On Feb. 8-9, Indian and other non-governmental witnesses will be heard. On Mar. 1, testimony1 will be delivered by officials from the In­terior Department and HEW. The new Jackson bill would establish a National Board of Regents for Indian Education as a separate agency in In­terior, which would assume BIA school operations. 
YAKIMA LAND QUESTION EX­
TENDED 
A two-pronged fork of opposition is accountable for a snag in the fabric of a settlement restoring 21,000 acres of ancestral Yakima land to the Washing­ton State tribe. First is the concerted 
opposition of selected envionmental groups active in the Pacific Northwest who question the boon of tribal ad­ministration over the property viewed 
IND/AN VOICE 27 

as sacred by the tribe. Second is a series of use permits held by non-Indians for certain properties within the forested area. The Yakima Tribal Council has passed two resolutions guaranteeing non­disturbance of current use, which may be pivotal. Extension of the matter was agreed beyond Dec. 31 by the tribe and the federal government, to which the Indian Claims Commission con­sented for a 60-day period ending March 
I. If the administration decides favor­ably to the tribe, additional action may be necessary from Agriculture Secretary Louis Butz, under whose department the land is currently administered. 
F T. LEWIS COLLEGE GETS 
FUNDS 
Approximately $38,000 has just been routed from the Washington BIA to Colorado's Ft. Lewis College to cover semester tuition of Indian students who lost free tuition under a recent en­actment of the Colorado State Legis­lature. Other funds from the regional offices in Phoenix, Albuquerque and Window Rock have also gone for stu­dent winter costs. Indian Commissioner Louis Bruce had pressed the Interior Solicitor's Office to file suit against Colorado as a "matter of vast im­portance" to the nation's Indians in its character of legal precedent, but Bruce's bid was squelched just before the holi­days. Another suit against Interior and the Bureau, however, is pending in the 
U.S. District Court (Dis~rict of Colum­bia) filed by four students. 
MORTON & 1972 ELECTIONS The West and reservations in the West can expect to see Interior Secretary Rogers C.B. Morton in that area re­peatedly through the election months · of 1972. According to political analyst Paul Hope of the Washington Star, the White House has sent out the order for Cabin~t members to get the 1972 political show on the road. Morton's assignment is to "deliver the Western states"-the states in which Interior's Reclamation Bureau is especially active and into which considerable water de­velopment monies are poured. Morton has already made five separate junkets across the Western states since his appointment a year ago, and a rich number are in the offing. As former chief of the Republican National Com­mittee, Morton undoubtedly has the knack and the savvy for the task. 


THE BUREAU MUST FIND A SENSE OF MISSION 
WASHINGTON, D.C.-(AIPA)­T o clarify widespread concern sur­rounding the remarks made by Interior Secretary Rogers C. B. Morton to the press Dec. 2 AIP A provides the tran-· script relating to Indians and the In­dian Bureau: 
Q. Is the Bureau doing what it is supposed to do, and-if it is obsolete -what should we do? 
A. I don't think it's doing what it's supposed to do. The Bureau of Indian Affairs has grown up over the years -really, over the century-without a mission, without a clear-cut mission. It's been custodial in a sense, but it hasn't been really forthcoming or pro­gressive in developing the inf rastruc­ture in the reservation system that is required so that the Indian can really live up to his potential. 
I found in my short term as the Sec­
retary of the Interior a most frustrating 
situation as far as dealing with the Bu­
reau is concerned. It's not because the 
people are not dedicated-they are. 
And it's not because they're not honest 
-they are. But the real question is: 
what is the right thing for the Bureau 
of Indian Affairs to do? 
What is the mission of a bureau such 
as the BIA in connection with the de­
velopment of the American Indian, or 
-more importantly now-in connec­
tion with helping the American Indian 
develop himself. I think we've got a 
long way to go to finally find a sense 
of mission in that Bureau. 
I don't think just abolishing it is the answer. For example, we know that the infrastructure of our general areas -the areas outside the reservations in the states-has proceeded at a far faster rate than it has within the reservations. 
We're short of water in many areas, and water development has lagged be­hind the average for water development in other areas. We're short of roads. No roads were built on Indian reser­vations between 1900 and 1935. And basically, the highway trust fund in a sense passes over the Indian Reserva­tion system. Only a small percent of the reservation inhabitants have electric power; only a small percent have run­ning water. 
In my opinion you can't develop economically unless you have a base for economic development, and I think one of the basic fundamental missions of the BIA is to provide that infra­structure-and we haven't done it. 
Today, the BIA absorbs about 25 
· per cent of the total appropriated bud­get for the Department of the Interior -$500 million or thereabouts. In addi­tion to that, there's $500 million or thereabouts appropriated for Indian . programs in HEW and an additional $150 million from other agencies. So you've got over $1 billion being spent for about a half million people on In­dian reservations-the highest per cap­ita expenditure of any government for any people in the world. 
And yet I don't think we're getting anything for it, and until we can come together with a sense of mission of what we really want to do, what the Indians want to do, and put this to­gether in a new program, I think we're going to continue to falter for a. long time, no matter who is the Commission­er and no matter who's the Secretary. 
Q. How do you propose to do this? Is there a plan? 
A. I think the only way we can do it (and I've been racking my brain on the thing) is to do it on a piecemeal or tailor-made basis. Start with some of the major reservations such as the Navajo for example, and the larger concentrations, and work out a master plan and a viable program for the de­velopment of infrastructure on those reservations, and get together the agen­cies that are involved. 
(I mean) the Bureau of Reclamation and the Bureau of Indian Affairs and Interior, HEW; HUD and all the other agencies of government that have In­dian programs; and see if we can't come up with a set of milestones for given reservations and make sure that we pass these milestones on schedule. 
Other than that, I don't see any real way to proceed. The way we are pro­ceeding now, everybody's worried about their (sic) own position. I've never seen anything like the angling for power within the Bureau of Indian Affairs of personalities. They're more interested in what position they have than in the program, and this concerns me.... 
I don't think we're going to hurt their culture. We don't want to hurt their culture. We want to give them the opportunity to preserve all the ele­ments of their culture that they would like to. But (under) the present pro­gram, the ta?(payers are not getting a good return o'if their investment. 
Constitutional Powers (FrolJl 
Indian tribal territories are 
from state jurisdiction and 
fact, be a part of any state 
process of formal merger ( 
process has never been clarifi 
stitutionally speaking). 
To return to the powers of 
eral government, it is clear 
government possesses only t 
powers in relation to tribes 88 
sesses in relation to states. But 
about the status of Indian indi 
Indian individuals, as ci · 
members of tribal territories (~d 
dependent nations" as the s 
Court once put it) would seem 
protected from excessive federal 
regulation by virtue of the ar 
presented above. In addition h 
the Constitution contains a ~ 
clauses ( especially in the "Bill of 
which specifically limit the power federal and state governments tion to all classes of persons within the juristiction of the States. 
It is quite clear that Indian uals residing outside of the bo of any tribal territory but wi boundaries of the United Sta and have been, covered by the clauses of the Constitution (in contrary practice on the part of 
since even resident "aliens" are 
by most such clauses. But what 
Indians residing within a tribal 
or (in more recent terminology) 
reservation? 
Supreme Court decisions have it quite clear that the Constit applicable in any region or which has been "incorporated" · United States. Clearly, Indian territories (reservations) within tinental United States and "a part of' the United States, fl viewpoint of the United States ment. Not only has that gov made its jurisdiction and laws those areas but all official pub · and maps of the government e. assert that such Indian reservaU "incorporated," that is, are part "homeland" or the "national t of the United States. 
To argue that the Constituti its guarantees do not apply t~ tion Indians and their orga to argue that Indian reservati "foreign" territories only "tem under the jurisdiction of !he States. This viewpoint, while favored by a very few Indi~ns ists, certainly is not the VIC Congress! 

1 Indians, as citizens and 1odiVl'!,'tthe United S~ates residing t ational terntory of the 
the n cannot be denied the full 
tates, . . d
1
. of the Const1tut10n. n a ­uon ver certain clauses of the 


1 i n. h~we su~h as the Fifth Amend-n tit~u~nthe power of the federal _ pt. hrn t without reference to the 
rnrnh~n 1 area in which the limit-
rap 1ca . 
. to be effective. 
0 I 
arize the above arguments

T urnm 
fl/d'an tribal territories (so-called 
I. n 'rvations plus nonceded Indian 
r .
nd ) which have been mcorpor­
ted within the external bounda­ri of the United States are part of the United States but are not 
nerally a part of any individual tate. Indian tribal territories exist as unique political units, compar­
ble to the District of Columbia nd Puerto Rico. Therefore, when 
• 
peak of the basic units into 

•hich 
the United States is divided 


mu t speak of a) states, b) tri­b I territories, c) federal district (Di trict of Columbia) and, d) over ea territories. The United 
tate i not composed solely of ijty rates! 

. Indian tribal territories possess th ame autonomy (local self­rule) in relation to the federal 
o ernment as do the states. 

. The term "reservation," although utilized generally by the federal 
o ernment, technically refers onl to the "reservation of lands" for Indian use and is not' neces­
_ril the correct name to be ap­phe~ to each and every tribal terntory as a political unit (any more than the Commonwealth of !rginia becomes the "State" of •rginia merely because it is 
nerally ref erred to as a "state" 
of the United States. all of this mean in prac­
. ' 
ery simply, it means that of the acquired powers of of Indian Affairs and of 
reta~ of the Interior over the 
of I ct· . .
n 1an tnbal tern­,~~ 1thout legal basis. They are the practice of treating conquered persons and the
' 
es not (at least since the recognize any class of con­
·ct· 
. reSi mg within the nited States! 
~. Jack D. Forbes 
IND/AN VO(CE 29 

• 
:

•
•
•
:

•
•
•
:

.t 
• 
e: 
: SUBSCRIPTION : 
O!7e-year gift subscription $6.00 ,~~IMJ!PJjJ~Rf l'fH~ffff 
. .. will mail gift cards to your lucky friends, telling them your special gift is on its way! 
* Canada and other countries acid $1.00 for postage. 
]To; /ND/AN v_OJCE, P.O: BOX 2033, SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 
I am enclosing a check or money order for $__for.___subscriptions. 
. 1 sub. $6 . 2 subs. $12 . 3 subs. $18 My name is._________,,-,----,--:;-------------­
<ptease print)

Address______________________1..,... City___________.State_______..... 
• 
• 

FOR A :
•
•
•

FRIEND... :
•
•
•

AG IFT :
• 



•
..·-: . 
.• •• 
-------"-ip__

.--.
: 

We'll hand sign an announcement card with name or nickname you choose.
...• .•
,.

. PLEASE ENTER MY OWN SUBSCRIPTION, ALSO. 
•

. year gift to-------1-....ii•
.

Address,__________ _
• 

City.__________.._
• 

State______-4 
. .• 

S~ncard__________
. 


ATATAT:&.ATA;~:c:::TATAilllllllllll 
'71 Month No. of of Issue Copies 
March April May June July/Aug._ -,I 


INVIAN COLLECTOR'S ITEMS Sept./Oct. _ ­Nov.
SHOWS ANV AUCTIONS-JEWELRV-BEAVJJORK ­
1 Dec./Jan. __ 
ARTIFACTS-COLLECTIONS-BOUGHT-APPRAISEV 
Total · Total 

FREE MAILING LIST Issues__ Price -­
~ • • • • • ro • • • •• • • • • • • ro • • • • • • •• • • • • •••••• 
Please mail to:

THE NATIONAL INDIAN CENTER 
Native American Publishing Co. 

1582 Colorado Blvd. 
P.O. Box 2033, 

Eagle Rock, California 
Santa Clara, California 95050 
..................•.• .....

90041 I am enclosing a check D 
30 IND/AN VOICE 
INDIAN RECIPES 
BACK 
ISSUES 
• • • •1.n case you 
missed us 
. Now you can bring your INDI VOICE collection up.to date order additional back copies your friends by completing th handy order blank. All co · 75¢ e_ach available only whi supplies last. 
Clip and Mail 
TRIPE & HOMINY 
2 Qts. water 2 Lbs. Tripe Medium onion 1/2 cup oil 1/2 tsp. salt Pepper to taste 
Dice tripe and boil. Fry onion in 1/2 cup oil. Put in boiling tripe. 
Add #2-1/2 can hominy 1 can tomato sauce 
Cook until tender with low 
heat and simmer. It thickens itself. Takes about 2 hours. 
NAVAJO FRIED BREAD 
4 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon salt Milk to make of biscuit dough consistency. Knead well as for yeast bread. 
Take 1/4 of dough at a time and roll to piecrust size (it will be thicker than piecrust). Cut into triangular pieces and fry in iron skillet in hot fat at least 4 in­ches deep. Best when hot. 
Editor's Note: If you have a favorite Indian Recipe you would like t_o share I please send it to .INDIAN VOICE. so 



/ND/AN VOICE 31 

Forrest has a paid job for .. the state;
apple (n) 1: the fleshy ... rounded and 
he is the legislative aid to Pauline Davis, 
red ... edible pome fruit of a tree ... 
one of the most Reaganesque members
of the rose family; 2: a fruit or other 
of the Assembly. She and Forrest, along 
vegetable production suggestive of an 
with other members of the California
apple. (Webster).apple. (Webster). 
Assembly, hatched a scheme under
apple (n) red on the outside and white 
which they would be enriched, as well as 
on the inside. (Indian Voice). 
certain members of the Association. The plans would have allowed resort cabins to have been built on the X -L Ranch, APPLE using state monies, f~r the use of Davis and other high power white politicians, OF THE MONTH on the shores of a lake to be built by
. Voice's first "Apple of the 

the Association. 
lnd•!nhonors go to a man who has 00th i The BIA granted $80,000 to the
the honor for several years. 

Association for a "feasibility study" of
rou,bt ~~ have played bootlickey and ~ :he white politicians for years are 
the proposed project. This contrasts 
0 with a total of $30,000 for irrigation
aidet d and we are pleased to
• expose , 'd 
projects on all California reservations
kiDI b ut one in our won m1 st. 
you a oe w1·11 run regularly in Indian for the same year, . 1970, and all t~is
((bis featur amount went to X -L Ranch, despite the crying need for irrigation projects oice) Forrest well deserves the honor 
on several other reservations. And of the 

::Apple of the Month. F_or years 
$333,000 allocated in 1970 for ~oad
bas stood on the side of whites wh_o 
budgets for California reservations,
wn people, and has used his
bi

so . h' d $146,000 was allocated to X-L Ranch. 
people as well to gam _is own e~ s. 
This huge percentage of the bud~et went 
One example of this 1s the_fight 
to a reservation which compnses less
fc,rrelt and his closed corporation '?f 
than 2% of the Indian land in the stat~, 
lldiam is putting up now to k~ep their 
Pit River people off Indian land. but which is all the land left to the Pit 
Errin Forrest 

River tribe, with the exception of three 
TIie only land, for_all pra~tic~l purposes, 
small rancherias comprising less than
Wt to the Pit River tnbe is t~e X~L luch in Modoc County, Cahforma. 500acres. · 9242 acres, bought by the Bureau Errin Forrest would like to be the
The Bureau and the Association have 
aflndian Affairs for the Pit River Tribe beneficiary of the Ranch, through the
the power to bar other Pit River Indians 

1938, was assessed at over $550,000 · BIA and the BIA would like to see thefrom X -L Ranch because the terms of
1964. It is closed to all but IO mem­clea;title to the Ranch go to the Associ­
the title stated that it was to be taken
of the Pit River Home and Agri­ation (Forrest), for services rendered:
"in trust for such bands of Pit River 
Clltural Cooperative Association and Forrest was almost successful' in
Indians of the State of California as
families, and the Association is having title to X -L turned over to.
shall be designated by the Secret~ry of 
ya represented by one man -Errin the Association. The hearings on the
the Interior." The local representative of
Forrest. metter were to be closed, so the Tribal 
the Secretary, the Sacramento A~ea Of­
Forrest and the Association constitute Council brought an injunction through 
fice of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, has 
onlyorganization recognized by the California Indian Legal Services to
used this discretionary power to reward 
uof Indian Affairs (BIA) from the force an open hearing. When the Col;lrt 
its bootlickers, and at the request of
Pl River Tribe. The Pit River Tribal ruled that any hearing would reqmre
the Association was preparing two years 
Coanci~which refuses to comply with 90 days notice to the parties concerned, 
ago to give clear title to the Ranch to
Bureau specifications for the con-the BIA sought to settle the matter
the Association. 
.' 'on because they would have to instead through Congress, by having
Then the Pit River Tribal Council, 
. up most of their power to the BIA a law passed which would have by­
in a session attended by most of the
recognized; the BIA tries to pre­passed the hearing. Once . again the
tribe including some members of the 
. that the Tribal Council does not Council members were forced to go to
Asso'ciation, decided to reclaim most of
But it conducts business without Washington to testify, and the bill was
the 3.386 million acres which the In­
llnction of the Bureau -and has temporarily killed. 
dian Claims Commission has acknow­
of Pitkn~wn to run Bureau officials out But Forrest is still trying. He has
ledged were taken illegally from the 
.River country physically. friends in Sacramento and Washington, 
tribe, (Much of this land is now held by 
Errin Forrest, on the other hand, is and is big in the Intertribal Council of
the Federal Government -the Bureau of 
Aita~none of the BIA's Sacramento California· he was the long-time vice-.
Land Management, and the Bureau of 
~ ice. And as a reward for three president through a succession of presi­
Parks.) At the same time, in addition 
~!lf licking the BIA's boots, the dents, few of whom were not in office
to occupying lands held now by the 

to tion_ Was slated some few years long enough to know the ropes. .Pacific Gas and Electric Company, the 
~l'Cce1ve clear title to the X -L Errin Forrest, a perfect example of
Tribe had another action on its hands ­
~ hich would have barred other the modern-day apple, selling out his ­
trying to prevent the illegal passing of
Indians from it forever; at the people to make a fast buck, and for
the X -L Ranch into the hands of a
'-offitb_ey are effectively barred from Political profit. 
privileged few who cooperate with the

Clally. 
~ 

BIA. ' 
.-.. . 

WIGWAM EVENINGS 
Fourth Evening 
by Charles and Elaine Eastman 

There is no greater rudeness than to interrupt a story-teller, even by the slightest movement. All Sioux children are drilled in this rule of behav­ior, as in many others, from their earliest babyhood, and old Smoky Day has seldom to complain of any lack of attention. Even Teona and Waola, active boys of eleven and twelve, and already daring hunters, would be ashamed to draw upon themselves by word or motion the reproving looks of their mates. A disturbance so serious as to deserve the notice of the old teacher himself would disgrace them all! 
"Although we shall hear again of the animal people," he begins pleas­antly but with due gravity, "and even of some who are not animals at all, we must remember that each of these warriors o( whom I shall tell you really represents a man, and the special weakness of each should remind us to inquire of our own weakness. In this life, it is often the slow one who wins in the end; and this we shall now see!" 
THE WAR-PARTY 
One day the Turtle made ready to go upon the war-path. His comrades who wished to go with him were Live Coals, Ashes, the Bulrush, the Grass­hopper, the Dragonfly and the Pickerel. All seven warriors went on in good spirits to the first camp, where a strong wind arose in the early morning and blew the Ashes away. 
"Ibo!" exclaimed the others, "this one was no warrior!" 
The six kept on their way, and the second day they came to a river. There Live Coals perished at the crossing. "S-s-s," he said, and was gone! 
"Ah!" declared the five, "it is easy to see that he could not fight!" On the further side of the river they looked back, and saw that_the Bulrush 

________________, clouds of steam will arise to blind 
surrounded. The Pickerel escapec1 swimming, but the Turtle, that one, was caught! 
They took him to the village there the head men held a council decide what should be done with · 
"We will build a fire and roast · alive in the midst of it," one pro 
"Hi-i-i!" the Turtle shrilled his cry. "That is the brave death I o choose! I shall trample the fire scatter live coals among the peop . 
"No," declared another, "we · boil water and throw him into the "Hi-i-i!" again cried the Turtl . shall dance in the boiling pot, 
had stayed behind. He stood still and 
waved his hand to the others, who 
grumbled among themselves, saying: 
"He was no true brave, that one!" 
The four who were left went on till 

they came to a swampy place, and 
there the Grasshopper stuck fast. In 
his struggles to get out of the bog he 
pulled both legs off, and so there were 
only three to go upon the war-path! 
The Dragonfly mourned for his 

friend. He cried bitterly, and finally 
blew his nose so hard that his slender 
neck _broke in two. 
"Ah!" declared the other two, "we 

are better off without those feeble 
ones!" 
The Pickerel and the Turtle, being left alone, advanced bravely into the country of the enemy. At the head of · the lake they were met-and quickly 
eyes of the people!" The counsellors looked doubtfull one another, and at last one said: "Why not carry him out to the die of the lake and drown him! Then the Turtle drew in his and became silent. "Alas!" he groaned, "that is only death I fear!" 
So the people took him in a can and rowed out to the middle of lake. There they dropped him in he sank like a stone! 
But the next minute he came up the top of the water and again ut his war-cry. 
"Hi-i-i!" he cried. "Now I alll home!" And he dived and swam W ever he would. 
This story teaches us that pat and quick wit are better than s 
IND/AN VOICE 33 




tended, wav­ing forward. 


f{andsat ar open, waved. 
OWL 


Both hands Thumbs and fingers curled over eyes. 
HORSE 


Fork of first two fingers over index of other hand. 
FROG 


Hopping motion with all fingers of one hand pinched at 
tips. 

DEER 

ofnose, push up. Flat nose. 
COMMUNICATION Wa-Na-Ka 


"Talk is cheap". "Silence is golden". Silent talk is golden. The mouth is 
shut and the ears are folded but the eyes probe the mystery of marks and movements. A "child" reading its "mother". The universal understanding of a bad odor when you hold your nose is sent to those in seeing range, without yelling skunk or wolverine. We are sending thoughts-communicating. 
A silent tom-tom tells us that it can communicate over long distances, carry a message. There · must be the will of the beater spelling out the language. This magazine is a tom-tom saying nothing until your eyes beat the mark­ings out of the white paper. So with smoke signals, trail bl~zings and mark­ings, pictographs and sign language. 
There were other means of talking over long distances used by the Red Man. "Talking waters" and "Talking air" are subjects which are still little understood or studied. Both were a still medium of communication using principles ofthe laws ofphysics. 
Here are some illustrations of sign la11guage and pictographs. 
BEAR 
BUFFALO 



GOAT 
Index fingers crooked over ears, then one hand under chin wiggled 


\ 
WOLF 

gers pointing away and moved up from shoulder, forward. 
(Over) 

BEAVER DOG ~ ~~--. FISH . 
~~~~~ 
Slap right hand up into o-en left hand.  Fingers dragging L to R like two tee­pee poles.  Open hand wavering, for­ward.  Two fingers  
of~oth hancta  
sp1raldown  
from ears.  

Longfellow, whose interest in picto­graphy gives the nine symbols most commonly used in the verse form Hia­watha: 
For the earth he drew a straight line,. ­
For the sky a bow above it; 
White the space between for day-time, 
Filled with little stars for night-time, 
On the left a point for sunrise, 
One the right a point for sunset, 
On the top a point for noontide, 
And for rain and cloudy weather 
Waving lines descending from it. 

Pictographs of other use in communications: 

Cloud Stormandwind .~ Rest
II 

/P 
Great Spirit Bad Everywhere
-r1J­
Power 
~ Spriits AboveCold 
Mountain ;J\\ 
Sick @ 
Lake •-<:::::>­
Life

0 0 Spirit
t~J Sea 
~ 

Day Moon phases t::j V Q Death 
• 


~._• ._-.A-.ATAT AT AT ATATATAT AT AT AT A '~ 
~ .
. first born male . ~ "chaske' " . 
. . .. ours is the destiny of earths nomads., to roam .. . from the land of many waters to the rock plains. . . the spirits of the four winds is our home., . : and hope is in the child as our heritage wanes. ~ 
. journey waited at council fires for first breath., . . pau.,ing in search of ranging buffalo trail. . . our brotherhood of the plains dictated the oath-. ~ "pass the spiritual bundle to the first born male!" : 
. take these symbols of our great fathers way. . . go and follow the high eagle's shadow. . ~ fo r your journey will start with the ending day. : . begin proud and strong in search of the morrow. . 
: ( a sioux indian custom .. . translated by rex moore) . 
. .
. .
~••~~T~T~T~T~T~T~T~T~T~T~T~•~• ~ 
ATTENTION SUBSCRIBERS 



Change of Address? Zip Code Correct? 
We can assure prompt delivery of your maga­zi ne if we show the correct address and ZIP Code on your mai ling label. (Postal regula­
tions require us to file addresses according to ZIP CODE.) If you move, be sure to 
Fill out and mail to: 
IND/AN VOICE P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, California 95050: 
------------~~~--------------~-­
~----------------------· -,
I· 

ATTACH YOUR MA ILING LABEL HERE 
(or, if not possible, print your old address here) 
I 
I I I

f ·11:,;,··1k}!1~::·:;~,:··bti·;~~ I 
·1 I

'f' PRINT YOUR NEW ADDRE SS HERE Y 
I I

NAMi;.___________ 
I 
I 

STREET____ _ _ _ ___ 
I 
I 

CITY--------~-I 
-----'I 


¦ 

I ISi 
I 
I 
un 

II 
For years, white people have been ! telling one crazy story about Indians after another. 
I 
I So it's not surprising when they accuse us of being everything from "ignorant savages" to "drunken fools." .._......__ 
We understand. 

After all, Indian has always been 
a pretty strange name. And just hear­ing it out of the blue, you'd probably never figure out the truth. 
That Columbus wasn't in the West Indies was his fault, not ours. And this was only the beginning of white misunderstanding. 



¦ 

n 1ng. 
So we thought there was 
0 

one way to get the true facts abo Indians out in the open. Start a pu lication devoted to contemporary dians on the national level. 
But somehow we couldn't qw ~ower ourselves to name calling. 
..,~ '"''"'"''"''· That would be too easy. Instead, we decided to try som thing harder. Educate white peop to the Indian view of America. L them find out what today's Ind· ·, is really like. And how he got there. If that doesn't get us a little derstanding for once, nothing 
--~~~~~~~~!!HI)~~~~~~ 

P.O. BOX 2033 SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 
BU LK RATE 
U.S. POSTAG E 
4c PAID PERMiT ·NO. 2o40 SAN JOSE , CALI F 








