
Fern Williams 
(S i fJIIX I 
Associate Editors 
Archie Blacksmith 
(Si"" .r) 
Rudy Casazza 
(S,·11,· ,·a) 
Smokey Silent Fo x 
Is i Oil\") 
Illustrator 
Arthu r Millard 
((!11 ,. rh 1111) 
Secretary Treasurer 
Mary A nne Navarro 
( /.,', o u· a ) 
Staff 
A nn Hansen 
(.-\,. () n,". ,,,, ,. /, I Cl) Jerry Roybal 
(.I , r a,-, I I" ) 
Geor g ette Boyer 
(SI OU .r j 
Robert Andrew Meigs 
((;/, ,, rok<· , •• (.'I, o,· t a11·) Dario. Wa yne Sundown 
( (: ,-f' -c ·) 
Leonard :Sedeau x 
((.'/, i !'!' I' //'(I) 
Victor Be c enti 
( _\" 11 IQ)<>) 
Ron Primeaux 
( /' n" <'a) 
Dean Ch avers 
( /. II m f> I' f ) 
Jim Ra cine 

~,~~1:s-:1:~:~,.
fi ~-. ~-.. 
;&~ . • ....~.. • 
~ .. ~

fflI Editorial 
la.:i~iB!tlSil!S!l..:S!I: 
TWO-FACED DIPLOMACY 
Many Indians do not want Alcatraz but most all Indians agree to the Pr involved. The treaty is valid, and provisions of the treaty of 1887, Sioux have an inalienable prerogative to Poe of the Island, obsolete Federal land 
Possession includes all items not ~ or removed by the Federal Governme fore declaring the federal compound ob The reason for the removal of the from Alcatraz Island is as two-faced the acquisition of the State of Texas. 
If it is not two-faced, then it hypocrisy, for the U. S. Government in Vietnam because of the principle treaty with that country, and at ho Federal Government violates the pr of treaties with the natives. The A Government claims the right to be in nam by a treaty made with that gove over a decade ago; the Indians have the to occupy the _Island of Alcatraz, other obsolete federal land, by treaty by the U.S. Government in 1887. 
The honor that binds international must be the same honor that binds treaties. Age does not determine the 1 of a treaty. The Land Allotment Act of is as legal, as valid as the Armis Panmunjom in 1953. If the Land All Act of 1887 is invalid, so then must 
G. I. Bill and all other laws enacted The same principles of legality are in The dishonor rests not with the Indians Indians can well understand the Federal ernment being pale-faced; but what does it have for being two-faced? 

LA ND ALLOTTM·ENT ACT Of 1 
Native Americans, Take Note!! 
President Nixon stated on March 31 that he plans to transfer federal lands valued at $6. 8 billion dollars and county governments and to co and industrial firms. 
Top priority categories for thes_e lands are airport sites, fish and wildld serves, parks, health, education, an fare projects. NATIVE AMERICAN and INDIAN ORGANIZATIONS should b8 in the TOP PRIORITY category as 
(Continued on page thirty) 
MONTHS COVER  QUIZ  
picture, by Cherokee Rowe, depicts the per­the Eagle Dance. Mr. graduate of Northeastern Tahlequah, Oklahoma. :an', he now lives in Warm and is a welder by  Whato as (Page How many What (Page  t famothe "26) is the 11)  I us Indian ndian Chstates beameaning  rist? r Indian names? of the  Chief is referred n ames?  
The won in, (Page  movie is 25)  that what?  the  Indians  finally  



HIGHLIGHTS OF THIS MONTHS ISSUE 

INDIANS TAKE VACATIONS! 
Yes, even Indians take vacations, and need them, particularly our un­salaried Indian Voice staff whose time spent in producing this publication is in addition to their regular full-time jobs. 
Because so many of the staff sche­duled July vacations, we missed our deadline ; therefore, we are combining the months of July and August into this issue . 


July-August 1971 

•• •••••• •.• •••••••••••••• •• , • 2 
o-faced diplomacy 

AlfAlfS .... .... ..•...•...•.. , , • 5 lcatraz in Perspective ntu and Pit River tribes et back land ol ille elect Anti-terminationist Tribal Council ckson Bill to repeal Termination put to committee Iden eagles found dead from poison minole shrimp farming in Flor ida 

••• · • · · · • • · ................. 16 
erican Anabasis -Ch' f
Jo h ie 

ep and the Nez Perce cum eh and the War of 1812 
(page 26) 


...... · · · · · · · · • · .......... . 29 art of tanning 
-Seminole method 

ENTERTAINMENT • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .• • • • • 24 Buffy Sainte-Marie sings for her people Indians finally win in the movies Indian hidden stick game 
EDUCATION • • ••••••• • • •• • ••••• • • • • • • • • • 14 
Report on conditions in Indian schools 
FEATUR'.ES 

Indian recipes -page 31 
The Wisdom of Walking Buffalo -page 11 
'Stereotyping the Indian' from We Talk, You Listen 
Soliloquy -The worst thing I have done -page 15 
LETTERS 
Feel Like An Indian 
• Reading "Indian Voice" makes me feel more like an Indian. We who live in the city must pass our proud heritage on to our children. 
I look forward to receiving each new issue of "Indian Voice." 
Rose Laughing Bird St. Paul, Minn. 
Please send me your monthly magazine, "Indian Voice." I am interested in knowing more of the spirit of the true Americans. 
James A. Eisweirth Oakland, Calif. 
Be Proud 
• "You might call this the observances of a white man, but who knows what blood runs in our veins. The same god, the same sun, and the same moon look down on all of us so in some way we must be akin." 
It was my good luck to be able to go to the Hayward Pow Wow on May 29th and I came home having learned much. Be proud of your people because if I was one of you I would also be very proud of it. 
The first friend I made at the Pow Wow was a little guy about 4 or 5 years old. I was sitting in the grandstand as he wandered by. He looked in my direction and smiled. I returned his smile. He rambled up the stairs and sat beside me­r thought of my grandsons far away. 
The next one I met was David Eddards­Gray Mounting. This man I found was a man of much human dignity and he was kind enough to let me take his picture. 
'l'he Bay Area Indian Princess was as regal as any queen in the world and she also did me the honor of letting me take her picture. 
Then I met up with Adam Nordwald and told him I sincerely believed in the good work he was doing for his people-"and that's for sure." 
With this I will say Via Con Dios my fellow Americans. Fred Martson Santa Clara, Calif. 
Best Of Its Kind 
I purchased a copy of "Indian Voice" at the Portland Pow-wow and think it is the best magazine of its kind I've ever seen. 
Dale Broom.

Vancouver, Wash. 

the wav ,t IS 

TIME MAGAZINE in a newsstory on electrical powerplants and pollution at Four Corners in the Southwest unwittingly reflected an appalling pub­lic ignorance when it stated that "the area's electric utilities decided to build new plants as far awav from 
people as possible-in the desert shared by Arizona, Utah, Nevada and New Mexico." In an otherwise in­telligent story, Time posed one of the absurd and unnecessary -questions 
of this century: "Should minorities like the Indians be allowed to live without interference?" Our question to Time: "Can this really be written in 1971 ?" 
AIPA'S "INDIAN TICKET" for the 1972 presidential race would be-in either order to be determined by the candidates themselves-Navajo Chair­man Peter MacDonald and Scholar Vine Deloria, Jr. A suggested In­dian Cabinet: State Dept. , Educator Bea Medicine; Interior, Rights Acti­vist Hank Adams; Treasury, NCAI's Leo Vocu; Justice, Attorney Frank­lin Ducheneaux; HUD, BIA's Ernie Stevens; HEW, BIA's William Pen­soneau; Labor, AIM!s Clyde Bel­court; Commerce, NCAI's James Bluestone; Transportation, Richard Oakes; Agriculture, Seminole Medi­cine Man Ingram Billy; Defense, John Trudell of Alcatraz. Added posts: Bureau of Reclamation, AIM's Russell Means of Cleveland; Culture, Clydia Nahwooksy of the Smithsonian; Land Management, BIA's William Veeder; Public Relations, Chief :ban George. 
-------~------­

AMONG "ANIMAL BABIES" pictured 
in the new children's Golden Book 
Encyclopedia are elephants, robins, 
frogs, sea lions, giraffes-and pa­
pooses. Published by Golden Press 
in New York and written by Bertha 
Morris Parker (formerly of the Uni­versity of Chicago), the "accurate , fact-filled volume" is "authoritative..• and entertainingly written and illus­trated to make learning an adven­ture." "Many baby animals look much like their parents," states the text. Several Indian associations here are promising to deliver an adven­turesome learning experience to Gol­den Press and Author ity Bertha Par­ker in the form of lawsuits charging racial defamation. 
RACIAL SL URS over radio sta KIHN in Hugo, Okla. , were de by the president of Goodyear T & · Rubber Co. in a letter of ex nation to the National Congress American Indians. Calling the rna "one of error and misunderstandi11g, the president assured NCAI the c pany would extend apologies if 8 were necessary and censure any in his organization who had " part in any such disservice." taped message: "Wanted-20 Indians, 21 years of age and °' to work." "Work, you can't anybody here to work. Every that wants to work here has got job." "Maybe that's what the She wants with the Indians. He is g to have them hold a gun on us make us work." 
AN ARTS SHOP at the San J Pueblo in New Mexico will rec a matching grant from a curre anonymous donor if it succeeds raising $7, 000 by July 1. The independently financed crafts shop the nation, the Okeoweenge C Co-op is supervised by Miss J Jones. In Washington, D. C. , one the city's most exclusive stores selling a collection of 100 porce medallions designed by the late a Boleslaw Cyfris at the tune of per, from which all proceeds go to the innovative crafts co-opera­tive. 
A WARDS & HONORS: Rights Acti 
Hank Adams, executive director d the Survival of American lndllll Assn. in Washington State and target of a night vigilante a while fishing, will receive the tional Education Association's A ham Lincoln Award "for coura actions in pursuit of equal o tunities." ... Fleming Begaye, 
Navaho businessman of Chinle, A recently received the BIA 's Small Businessman of the Year A for a wide-ranging economic e prise including a service sta hardware, feed, auto parts and s ing goods store, restaurant, building and ranch. . .. Autho Virginia Driving Hawk Sneve, R bud Sioux, was given a $500 a for her manuscript "Jimmy Y Hawk" by the Council on Inter Books for Children. . . 

~AFFAIRS 



ALCATRAZ ID PERSPECTIVE 
RICHARD LA CO UR SE 
(AIPA STAFF WRITER) 
rnajor lines of a new federal working to exploit the failure of ~he toward the Indian power move­communication among various Indian 
llCY e fast becoming clear. That groups · by perpetuating a stereotype 
nt ar 1
rnoreover, cannot accurate y of the urban Indian who does not know who ·he is and who ostensibly
~aiied anything other than sup-has no living bonds with his reser­
ion. . 
a rapid series of actions reach-vation tribesmen. In across the country in the past The White House used the pretext weeks, federal force has been 
of the darkened lighthouse on Alca­ed against Indian people near Mid­traz as a "maritime safety hazard" ·n Calif., at Mount Rushmore to evict the Indian community while to\ ' ew York City while other the administration itself, according 
tio~s designated as "militant" oc­
to the Coast Guard, ordered the cut­ed in Chicago and Oakland. off of electricity to the island a supreme symbol of this new 
year ago. Hey is, of course, Alcatraz-heart-The White House claimed further nd of the Indian power movement. that Indians were shooting at Coast pre-dawn action by U. S. mar­Guard vessels which were repairing ended in one stroke perhaps buoys in the bay and that nothing most controversial Indian group approaching real "negotiations" had since the nationwide Ghost ever been undertaken with the Alca­traz community, which it labeled a
in 1890. 
time, however, "not wanting "sideshow of urban Indians." 
tber Kent State out there" (in the "You don't think Navaho Chairman of a White House aide), the Peter MacDonald cares one iota about administration is reaching for Alcatraz?" asked minority affairs retexts and resorting to force in special assistant Bradley Patterson. strangle yet another move­"We've acted with the utmost re­which it will neither hear nor straint for well over a year. Tres­pass is trespass, and if you found The eviction of the Alcatraz inter­some wild strangers on your front I community by marshals armed lawn you'd call the police, and that's 
pistols and shotguns ends the what we did." 
by ical but not the symbolic pre­Legal support for the White House of Alcatraz, leaving in the position appears to be a letter by of armed force. unanswered former Attorney General Ramsey 
and moral questions. Clark saying Alcatraz should not be main human damage of the given to the Indians because it "does House policy is that it is not qualify as available public land." 

The White House serves both 
Indian communities and the Ameri­
can public poorly when it conveys 
mistaken stereotypes of the mind­
less wild Indian to serve its own 
do-nothing policy on Indian interest 
in newly surplussed federal lands. 
Instead, these lands are being 
transferred now to commercial and 
industrial firms, state and county 
governments, and the needs of the 
Native American are given little 
if any consideration to speak of. 
The nervousness of this admini­
stration over surplus land is ap­
parent to all who know where to 
look, but those jitters are based 
not on conscience but economics. 
Perhaps the White House rhetoric 
will impress the most gullible of 
the non-Indian population, but we 
doubt it. 
Perhaps the policy too will win 
support as long as it is based on 
the circulation of cheap and mind­
less stereotypes of the "hapless 
Indian." But this, too, we doubt. 
Indian people themselves know the 
truth, and will deal with it. 
"We're not going to quit," said 
Alcatraz leader John Trudell. "We 
are talking about our right to live, 
our right to be people, and this 
is how they respond. It shows that 
their attitude toward us has not 
changed. They're trying to intimi­
date us but we're not going to be 
intimidated." 
What the administration is blind 
to is that what Alcatraz was all 
about was merely the traditional 
tribal concerns cast in a new age. 
It was no child's adventure in "Pan-lndianism." Rather, it was an intertribal experience forged under the pressures of the late twentieth century, from which emerged the most common classi­cal ties of the Native Americans on this continent: a fellow-feeling for the earth, the primacy of spirit, the Indian sense of "we" rather than "I, " and an insistence on the centrality of the religious life. Most of all Alcatraz was a cry from the heart concerning the right to be-to be oneself in the way one must, in one's own well de­fined world free from harassment and the imposed criminal ignorance of others. 
Historically, Alcatraz was unin­habited before the thrust of Euro­pean colonialism. But today it has been hallowed with death and birth. The tiny daughter of Alcatraz acti­vist Richard Oakes fell from a stairwell to her death on a steel prison bannister. There, too, the cry of new life sprang from Wo­voka, son of John Trudell. 
First death, then birth. In that universal exchange among children we may yet find a clue to the future. 
5 


INDIAN AFFAIRS 


OCCUPATION: 
Toyon To Become Indian Territory 
Wintu and Pit River Indians and Indians of All Tribes won a peaceful victory Wednesday, May 26, 1971, in their fight to take over the for­mer Toyon Job Corps Center in Cen­tral Valley. 
Confrontation gave way to negoti­ations when the federal government backed off from a hard-line "no-talk" policy. 
A settlement reached after a day­long session between Indians, the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Shasta County Community Action Pro­ject is to turn title to the 61-acre site over to the Indians within two years. 
As a first step the BIA gave CAP a permit to administer and maintain the land. 
CAP and the Indians are to have 90 days to present their program for the use of the site and get enough money to keep it maintained in its present "mothballed" condition. 
Over the next two years Indians and CAP are to work together to bring those programs to life. At the end of that time CAP and the BIA are to recommend the title to the land be given to the Free Indians and the Wintu Nation. 
Wes Barker, acting area director of the BIA, said the entrance of CAP into the negotiations represented the turning point for the BIA. 
"The CAP involvement was the essential factor for reasons of book­keeping and fiscal responsibility," he 
said. This is exactly the sain of agreement we entered ini: 
the Inter-Tribal Council of Calif They're a CAP organization Ed Forbes, director of C;\p"'V it will cost about $40,000 a y' maintain the center as it is ear 
Indian spokesmen said they n happy with the settlement. 
"Ever since we got ~he land, was the attitude the land was said Pit River Indian spoke Darryl Wilson. "I think the accepted us. It had to be." 
"This is a good settlement ,, Chris Ryan, spokesman for th; Nation. "But we'll never be till the land is ours. " 
As the Indians left Emmal's around 5: 30 p. m. , Pit River Mildred Rhoades walked up to Ba of the BIA and shook his hand. 
"I never thought I'd be shaking hand of a BIA man," she said. 
The Toyon center has been v since May 1969 when it was cl as a Job Corps Center by Nixon ministration C'J.t-backs. 

Deputy Dist. Atty. William Lund, left, went that session, Lund presented the Bureau to the Toyon Job Center in Central Valley, Indian Affairs' conditions for negotiati Calif. to talk with Wintu and Pit River In­settlement of the takeover. Shasta C 
dians occupying the site. Here Lund and Legal Aid Director William Emmal is on Pit River Indian Darryl Wilson, center, talk right. The story is printed above. about going into a closed-door session. In (R-S .....,) 
force Again Used t Indian Pe ople 
W'a•••• D. C. (AIPA): _The GTO •d under provisions OIi of _1an sl use of the 1968 
5100 C a . t· 
r ·th forcible ev1c 10n rne\~':/ie an "occupation 

0 
do Indian college
olora . 

. d to dwindle. onun~~ese developments: ere ons were evicted 
35 ~ersc·t·es Naval Air 
fWlO l l . f 
Polis Minn. , a ter
innea • h 
Property where t e
h
t e · d" 11

r\'e meets peno ica y. R h'ldren left after a
r,d C l ·t
rd to abandon the s1 e 0 e\en federal marshals · moved in, about 35 e b the American Indian -I seeking the land for
1 ~ 

........ ( ice center-were ar­charged with "simple of federal property. 
H rus, Colo., 15 miles Le i College in Durango, ul of students remained -long occupation to protest .Ulldl~wal of tuition waivers for by the state legis­
t since the state had ord in an agreement ral government, student c La Rose said the land ert to federal ownership 
u ." 
d the students planned tarted here with Indian or the Indian people. " ation force consisted 
Ft. Lewis students out of the summer, said La le sanitation units were 
supply of water was said . Food was both and purchased. ted that donations to 
on force could be mailed for Indian Education P Hesperus, Colo. ' • 
tion And By-laws vised 

C TO • D. C. (AIPA): The ss of American Indi­revising its constitution to include urban Indians lllbership, said Executive Vocu in an interview 
1971 


Relocation Joe 




"Ya, might say that things 
are picking up---" BACK IN THE BIG CITY 
to all members for study and com­ment by mid-August, 90 days before NCAI's annual convention in Reno, November 14-20• 
"NCAI cannot take a stand against its own people, whether or not they are urban," said Vocu. He envisioned the formation of intertribal chapters throughout the nation's cities whose members would be confirmed through tribal censuses or enrollment lists by the organizers of the urban chap­ters. 
"There are state funds and state programs which need to be looked into," he said. "Urban Indians are not getting their share of city ser­vices. NCAI would certainly support · them in seeing they get a fair share of the pie. No fair share in city services makes the urban Indian look for federal assistance, which con­cerns the reservation Indians. And if the federal pie is split, neither group really gets enough." 
The formation of urban intertribal chapters would give city Indians clear-cut political leverage, said Vocu. "Six thousand Indians from all walks of life voting solidly will elect somebody," he said. "Such organizations combined throughout a state would give the Indian minority a voice which would be heard. Right 
now  they  constitute  a  minority  of  
minorities  in  need  of  a  stronger  
voice."  

TERMINATION: Anti-terminationists Win Colville Tribe Election 
NESPELEM, WASH. (AIPA): Anti­termination candidates for the Col­ville Tribal Council elected here May 8 will be officially seated July 8, reversing the previous termi­
nationist council by a majority of at least 9 to 5. 
Terminationist Chairman Narcisse Nicholson was rejected by the local voters, and anti-termination opponents Charles Quintasket and Barbara Mar­chand received more votes. 
The newly elected council will se­lect new officers on July 8. It is reported poised to develop new pro­grams to take advantage of al.l avail­able federal projects for the reser­vation which had previously been turned down by the terminationists. 
In 1956, in order to obtain clear title to reservation lands, the Col­ville Council was forced to accept a clause in Public Law 77'2. requiring development of a termination plan within five years. Though most Col­villes were reported to be against termination at that time, groups fa­voring a sale of the rescn·ation and distribution of assets to members moved to take over the council in 1963. 
By 1965 they had control of the council, and Sen. Henry M. Jackson, D-Wash., introduced legislation for them in each session of Con[;ress since that time. Although the Jack­son bill passed the Senate several times, Rep. James Haley, D-Fla., 
prevented its passage in the House. Jackson has not reintroduced the bill this year. 
Public hearings and the paper "Our Heritage" were credited for the swing vote. 
•••• the wilderness was taken from the Indians because "no one" could 1ive there and then cities were built in which no one cou 1 d 1 i ve ! 
FROM 'WE TALK, YO U L I STEN' VI NE DELORIA,JR, (THE MACMILLA N CO) 
INDIAN AFFAIRS 
( / 11 i f I' rf .S f 11 f I' S S1• 11 ,1 tnr 

, ,' llk'Nln' .JACKSON 
Was hin g ton St at e 

Jae ks on Bill Proposes Repeal Of "Termination" 
The Senate Interior and Insular Affairs Committee has scheduled an executive se!r sion July 19 on Senate Concurrent Reso­lution 26 introduced by Sen. Henry Jack­son (D-Wash.) to repeal House Concurrent Resolution 108 -the notorious "termina­tion" legislation enacted in 1953. 
The Jackson resolution is the only one introduced in the Senate regarding ter­mination. Four have been introduced in the House ofRepresentatives: HCR 95 by Rep. John Saylor (Penn.), HCR 102 by Rep. Lloyd Meeds (Wash.), HCR 143 by Rep. James Halye (Fla.), and HCR 181 also introduced by Meeds and identical to HCR 102 with different co-sponsors. 
The resolution not only calls for the repeal of termination but also for proter.­
tion of Indian lands and cultu . d 1· . f re
contmue po icies o self-deterrn· 
Important parts of the Jackso tion call for, "improving the qu~· quantity of social and economic d ment efforts for Indian people •nd mizing opportunities for Indian and self-determination," and, "In • perty shall be protected; Indian and ide~tity will_ be respected; and gress will commit and dedicate i support a policy of developing the sary programs and services to bringI and Alaska Natives to a social and mic level of full participating citi1e11, 

WHY SEPARATE? 
JIM 
I
t was a pleasant evening of 
Wednesday May 5, 1970 in 
Reno, Nevada. There was a little cloud coverage but in the main the clouds were small and far apart. We had hurried dinner because I had been invited to speak to a friend's Graduate Class in Educational Psychology. The topic of my discussion was to be Indian Education and D-Q University. 
The structure that the class was being held in did not differ from any other factory and had the tra­ditional cheese box motif. We ar­rived at the appropriate class room on time which amazed me. My arriving any place on time always amazes me. It didn't matter if I did arrive on time or not because I had to wait for three students to complete their dissertation. The topic of discussion was why people go to college. The reasons that they were able to gather of why individuals were going to college were repeated so many times that they became cliches. There wasn't one creative, imaginative answer given or if there was they did not record it. Not one considered a college or university experience as a new experience. 
My turn came to speak. I was introduced to the class and looked over the assembled people. With­out any salutation, I opened with the statement, "The present day educational system is a complete failure as far as Indian people are concerned. And as far as that goes, it is also a failure for any­body else." 
I defended my premise by citing examples from a publication titled Who Should Control Indian Edu­cation? and the apparent success 

RACINE 
of Rough Rock School. Then I introduced the subject of D-Q Uni­versity and its goals. A short history of D-Q University was pre­sented. I closed my discussion with a summary of the material presented and opened the meeting for questions. 
A blond blue eyed type with a very proper hair cut was sitting across from me. At the end to the north of the sharp edged or rectangular set tables sat an indi­vidual all by herself exuding in­telligence. She was obviously the De Fraulein Fuehere of the class. 
Fraulein Fuehere took the first pot shot at my discussion by ask­ing, "Were not religiously affiliated schools failures and are not they small and insignificant?" I could only reply, "Yes, I guess Notre Dame, Stanford, College of the Pacific and Whittier are schools that are both small and insignifi­cant. But, we are not religiously oriented. I said we will use as a basis of teaching at D-Q Indian and Chicano religion and philosophy vvhich includes various cultural aspects." 
The blond blue eyed type intro­duced his opening with, "You know I am from a middle class back­ground." I replied, "I could have never guessed. 11 He went on, 11I am in a minority. We are trying to start a new social order. I cannot see why your school must be separate. 11 I stated that the primary reasons for a separate school is that the present school system for Chicano and Indian students is inadequate. We believe that in the possibility of teaching and solidifying a person in his root culture, he will come out a 
stronger person. Further, the 
that we should all become ho 
geneous for a strong society i 
fallacy that was forced upon 
(the Indians) as a truth but 
not exist in fact. The Jap 
Chinese, and Jews have all 
mained autonomous societies 
we cannot deny their contributl 
to the good of our society. 11 
De Fraulein Fuehere stated, is true that all those people made a contribution but reme Italians, Irish, etc. , were all couraged and criticized by friends for speaking their language." I said, " Then it pears we are not too bright reflecting the attitudes of our rents." She went on, "No, I mean is we do not teach their culture." I replied, "I w believe you if you took out Italian painting and music, Ger painting and music, English his and art, European art, history philosophy, from the curriculum 4 schools. You are thoroughly mersed in your cultural b grounds. It is your music we listen to on TV and radi It is principally your art we 
It is your history we study your philosophy we learn." 
Then super liberal closed meeting with, "I do not see difference between you and person next to you. 11 I th "That poor kid needs glasses. man next to me is obviously six feet tall and has a mus~.. 
111111
He also has blue eyes and whole host of experiences and ,, ferent reactions than I had. said to him, "I am glad you able to homogenize us like I am a little disappointed thl& cannot be an individual with unique qualities." 
I then walked out. 

oALITI ON: 
C . ce Of Cal-Wash ~111•1~ Tribes formed
5,na 
. J-IINGTON: D_. C. (AIPA): A ?ew \\ ,\ Association of Intertribal 
c? tern WAIG) has been formed by 
rouP \ribal groups from the states 
o 1~t:~ington and California, with \\ a hip pending from a Nevada
,nbers ·1 
· ·bal counc1 . tertri_ ers in the new political 
. o-:g:re Roy George Sr. , Small n100 0 f western Washington, and ribe5 . and George Effman of the 
• I _Elgi~a Intertribal Council. hforni S d "b d
·ro\V\ ,5 Roy Georg_e r._ esc~1 e . washington-Cahforma alliance
ne\\ v 
mall tribes as a_ 11 press~r_e group od uce the des_red political ef­
re o;h"pr new 
coalition adopted a seven­teprogram of goals and objectives
1 ~ rive a consolidated voice to the !; "b II
mailer tri es. "We're trying to be unified and e're following the trend of the Pre ident' s message on self-deter­mination, 11 said the STOWW sp~kes­
n. 11 we want to have a bigger •oice in our destiny, and now the mall tribes are finally getting to 
e point where they're organizing nd supporting each other and· they re speaking for many Indians. " 
LAW: Indian Law Firm Opens O.C. Office 
WASHINGTON, D. C. (AIPA): The In titute for the Development of In­dian Law, an innovative public in­
rest law firm to deal exclusively ith Indian legal issues, has opened office here at Room 808, 1026 
17th St. NW. ttorney-Scholar Vine Deloria Jr. president of the new institute, 
nd Kirke Kickingbird, attorney and BIA legislative counsel, has indicated e will acyept the position of execu­ve director. The institute has a 
-member board and a seven-mem­er advisory council. 
A. pioneer venture in public Indian airs, the institute plans to publish cholarly Indian law journal for 
~rts, to provide a legal infor­tion service for tribes and Indian
or · 
~nizations, to prepare in-depth
r1od·1 
. c reports on legal aspects of
1 
~an affairs, to pursue actual liti­
t1on · 
nd· in selected cases, to train1• n. law students, and to publish _Jurisprudence textbook · t·
hich -m 1me
11
1 . wi contain a total theory of
ian law. Institute b
l t . oard members are: Pre­
n Vine Del . J
rank Du oria r. , Oren Lyons, . cheneaux Sr and Della
0 

rrior· Members of the legal ad­
~ LY-AUGUST 1 971 
visory council are: BIA resources specialist William Veeder, BIA Supt. Sherwin Brodhead, former Indian Commissioner Robert Bennett, D. C. lawyer Christopher Buckley, Seattle attorney Blair · Paul, and OEO legal services specialist Will Janklow. 

VIRGINIA ALICE STROUD 
Protest: Beautiful But Bothered 
Miss Indian America XVII, Chero­kee-Creek Virginia Alice Stroud to Oklahoma, is beautiful but bothered. 
In a recent series of interviews with newspapermen in the East, the 20-year-old soft-spoken student lea­der from Bacone Junior College can­didly expressed her unhappiness with the program of the All American Indian Days Pageant in Sheridan, Wyo., and the ripples from her straightforward comments continue to widen. 
She indicated she was unhappy over the conditions in which Indians must live during the pageant itself-poor sanitation, scarcity of water for drinking. and bathing, and minimal Indian participation in the actual pageant as planners and judges. 
She also was unhappy, she said, with the condescension and juvenile treatment accorded her as a con­temporary young adult and mature Indian woman. 
"I really don't like it," she said. "I like to be myself, but certain people think I should be something else. I don't want to pretend to be someone else. 11 
On Sheridan, she said, "If it's going to be something worthwhile to Ind.ian people, I'd like to see it done properly. Right now it's white people promoting Indians to attract tourists to their community. 11 
Virginia, a pronouncedly self-aware Indian young woman, had conceived her public role as an opportunity to speak out for Indian concerns, not merely to be on display. 
"The maintaining of our culture is the biggest concern right now," she said. II The tribal language among my people is dying out. Another concern is creating an awareness among non-Indians that we're not stereotypes-the humble-type Indians they dreamed up seventeen years ago." . 
The forthright beauty described an incident in an elevator during which she was in traditional dress. 11 Do Indians still attack?-You don't at­tack any more, do you?" one pas­senger asked. "No," said Virginia, "but we've become very aware of ignorance." 
Virginia gets our vote for both beauty and brains. 

INDIAN AFFAIRS 
ENTERPRISE: Seminoles Pilot Florida 
Shrimp Farming Project 
HOMESTEAD, FLA. -The Big Cy­press Seminole Indian Reservation is the site of a pilot project designed to develop a freshwater shrimp in­dustry for this tribe. 
The growing-pond complex is lo~ cated in a large cattle pasture in the heart of the reservation. When the pond banks have stabilized, cattle will be allowed to graze on the grassy areas between ponds. If the production of cattle and shrimp in the same area is achieved, the effi­ciency of present land usage will be significantly increased. 
The successful completion of this project, sponsored by Aq-uaculture Products and Research, Inc., will provide the Indians with the oppor­tunity to become involved in a via­ble new industry. 

used at this time to determine those persons unknown outside federal au­thority" who are using the poison which his agency had determined to be the cause of death for the eagles. 
Nearly 50 bald and golden eagles have been found dead in the past month in Wyoming. Interior Special Assistant Nathaniel Reed told news­men there are only 800 nesting pairs of the two eagles still living in the nation, and that they are on Inter­ior1 s "endangered species" list. 
In Wyoming, meanwhile, a spokes­man for the management and enforce­ment division of the Bureau of Sport Fisheries said he had questioned four men who admitted using thallium to kill coyotes and foxes in _the area. 
Later, three antelope carcasses heavily baited with thallium were found near Jackson Canyon, Wyo., not far from the area in which the dead eagles were discovered over the past month. 


RELIGION: 
Indian Ecumenical 
Conference Annual Event 

WASHINGTON, D. C. (AIPA): The second Indian Ecumenical Conference is set for July 18-21 on the Morley Reserve in Canada. However, few 
U.S. Indian ceremonial religious leaders from the nation's tribes may be able to attend for the simple lack of funds. 
John A. MacKenzie, of the nawbe Institute in Toronto co-ordinating and adminis~r·Who conference, said request for s~,and financial help from A~rt denominations has been "slow even negative." 
The first ecumenical confe last August on the Crow Nau:: Montana was attended by reprea tives of 47 tribes and an unex e and large number of Indian people. The turnout was inter: as a sign that a responsive c had been struck among u. s Canadian Indians, mirroring a ·\Vlde­ning interest in the revival of na tribal religions. 
One resolution selecting June longest and most sacred day to ' tribes, as a National Indian Day • Prayer has b~en endorsed by Anglican Church of Canada United Church of Canada, the p~0 tant Episcopal National Execu Council and the Canadian Ca Conference. Each, he said, currently examining the manner which the day might be obse ceremonially. 
The 1970 conference enacted lutions concerning the sacred rela between people and land, the rt of the Native American Chu commercialization of sacred da competition between Christiandeno . nations, Indian medicine and heal and the indiscriminate desecration i sacred Indian sites. 

SEMINOLE SHRIMP FARMERS 
Joseph Jumper, and wife Alice, who manage the new artificially-cultur~d shrimp farm on the Big Cypress Seminole reservation , 

ECOLOGY: 
Eagles Found Dead 
From Poisoning 
WASHINGTON, D. C. (AIPA): As yet more bald and golden eagles were found dead of an outlawed pest control poison named thallium in Wyoming, the Interior Department here pledged to seek arrests and convictions of those using the chemi­cal illegally. 
Interior Secretary Rogers C. B. Morton told newsmen that a "Hercu­lean effort of investigation is being 

'~That's how the saying 'G8T OPF MY BACK' originated.' ' 



THE 








WISDOM 
OF 
WALKING 

BUFFALO 


"D o you know that trees talk? Well, they do. They talk to each other, and they'll talk to you, .if you will listen. Trouble is, white people don't listen. They never listened' to the Indians, and so I don't suppose they'll listen to the other voices in nature. But I have learned a lot from trees: sometimes about the wea­ther, sometimes about animals, some­times about the Great Spirit. 
"We were lawless people but we were on pretty good terms with the Great Spirit, creator and ruler of all. You whites assumed we were savages. You didn't understand our prayers. You didn't try to understand. When we sang our praises to the sun or moon or wind, you said we were worshipping idols. Without understand­


ing, you condemned us as lost souls just because our form of worship was different from yours." 

Stewart festiv 
Story, photos by SONDRA BERNS 
Only a few white faces and a sea "student" types were to be seen 
8111

crowd of over two thousand at the Indian Festival held Saturday at the s Indian School outside Carson City. 
An array of crafts including bead pottery and basketry were representa the various tribes involved: Paiute, Sh Bannocks, Yakimas, Goshutes, Utes, p Pima and Apache among others. 
Open booths constructed of tree br housed cook fires where. Indian fried and other foods were prepared and student band played tunes only v familiar to outsiders, while famihe friends and students watched quietly. 
A display of pain.tings in the gymnasium featured student work, showing Indians defiantly shroud American flags. One slickly coiffeured b exclaimed, "Well, they certainly patriotic.'' (f rom The Native Ne1,adan) 



T 1 971 
EDUCATION 

More education.. ...not the whole answer! 
•The BIO has historically shown itself incapable of prol'iding education for Indian children!• .. .
sENAToR EDWARD KENNEDY 
Some Notes on 
INDIAN EDUCATION 
by Lehman L. Brightman 
The Bureau of Indian Affairs oper­ates a school for orphans and other dependent Indian children at Pierre, 
S. D. Each child is issued two sets of clothing, one to wear while the other is washing. If each child had three sets of clothing, the clothes could be ironed, but as it is their clothes are always wrinkled. There are no curtains at the windows or rugs on the floor. There are very few toys for the children to play with. The children bathe by grades; each child gets a bath every eighth day. The school runs from the first to the eighth grade; the children are five to fifteen years old. 
School authorities dictate not only to children, but to their parents as well. Weekend visits hqme, parents' visits to the school, the duration and nature of every family contact with the child, all are controlled by the staff. At the Tuba City Boarding School on the Navajo reservation in Arizona, children are allowed to see their parents only on occasional week­ends and if the school feels the child needs to be punished, they may not see their parents at all. The BIA generally discourages visits by the parents because the children get up­set and troublesome afterwards and the number of runaways increases. 
ii

BET ER 
The high rate of running away is explained partly by the boredom and lack of recreation at the schools; breaks in the military routine are rare. Last year, two Navajo boys froze to death on their way across the reservation after running away from school. They were trying to walk 50 miles to their home. Others try to escape by drinking or by sniffing glue, paint, or gasoline. 
Despite such problems, despite the large number of children who are classified as troublemakers and are bounced from school to school until they are old enough to drop out or join the service, despite all these symptoms of serious trouble, the BIA solution is not to change the schools, but to punish the children. In 1969, the entire BIA school sys­tem employed one full-time psycholo­gist. One Indian boy who had at­tempted suicide six times was sent to Chilocco for lack of anywhere else to send him. Recently the su­perintendent at Chilocco was asked what he would do if he had more funds: "I'd build a jail and hire more guards," he replied. 
Suicide among Indians, students and adults, is a separate full-scale social problem. Overall, the Indian suicide rate is ten times the national average; on some reservations it is one hundred times the national aver­age. One boarding school, the Busby Indian School on the Northern Chey­enne reservation in Montana has 250 students and had 12 suicide attempts in 1969. 
• 


Activist L~hman Br tgh Director of the 
s i ty of Cal ifor n 1 a, Ber 
President of the Unt t 
Americans and Ed ito r o 
letter THE WARPATH. 
Stewart Indian Boa Stewart, Nev.: 
Students are given thi 
from the time they enter 
hall to eat and leave. 
Seconds are never given. caught going back for placed on work detail , for 30 days. Students co small quantities, the lack and contamination of the f dietitian denied that the maggots, but admitted that were weevilly. 
There are no showers in ing or after 7: 30 p. m. The television sets are at 7:30 p. m. 
The principal consider to be "prevocational." He of the students were there todial and remedial rea aways are common. one sent to Stewart after se all tence in the Juvenile H Nev. After a short time he ran away, back to Hall where he asked to be 
mitted. ~-----­







,,... r am an old man, and I have 
done many bad things. But I have 
learned some truths; for a while I 
tried to be like the white man for it 
seemed that the only way to win any­
thing was to fight for it. I did their 
kind of work and it took me a long 
time to understand that I didn't want 
to win because I didn't want to make 
others lose. " 
"The worst thing I've done, I think, was to stay silent when inside my blood raged with anger. I watched my sons leave the reservation under the government's land allotment policy when my instinct told me we should never separate. We have become a scattered people and are prey for those who are greedy. Greed upsets the natural balance of the earth. There is enough for every man, enough for every animal, enough space for every stone and ... " 
A mosquito buzzed near the old man's face. He watched, and said, "Yes, and enough blood for every mosquito. It is when you begin to rearrange the positions of stones and trees, giving them a strange purpose such as those who would build tall buildings. It is then that Mother Earth becomes sick. For it is a great insult to any mother for one to ~riticize her children, like saying 
your son Buck has too large a nose­w_hy not let his hair grow long over his face to hide it?' The mother is hurt. So when a man builds a city where a forest used to be Mother Earth asks, 'Why were not ~y t~ees ~eautiful enough for this man that he 
a~ to cut them down?'" 
. Our fathers lived for many centu­~:rs without building a single city. Mother Earth gave us all we need for food and protection. We ate 
the antelope and lived inside the buf­falo skin. We learned never to kill the female of any animal. Father Sun kept us warm. Old Grandmother Moon advised us and was tolerant of our silly ways. And our older Brothers and Sisters in the Wind and Snow teased us to make us strong and to help us to be men. " 
"But the white men, from what I have seen, are inclined to turn things upside down. They are never satisfied. Even when they build a city they keep tearing it down and building it over and over again. It must be that they are seeking something that cannot be found. Or maybe they are not looking for anything in particular, just hunting for the sake of the hunt. It must oe . that it is a game to them. It is a bad thing that they are killing Mother Earth who provides them with the 
game.'' 

"And I think Mother will die of sadness from so many insults from her own children. She will die be­fore those children can kill her with their silly games. Perhaps it will be a giant volcano or earthquake that will make Mother Earth young again. And then maybe she will have more children. " 
"But I do know that I cannot expect to teach you these truths for truth has no teacher. You will feel it within you. No matter where you are, when you become lonely and want to go home, go to the mountains, the 
lakes, the  oceans, ., or  the  forest,  and  
your  family  will  welcome  you.  You  
come  to  know  this..."  

The above soliloquy is an excerpt from one of the chapters of a forthcoming novel written by Dolly Bird 



HISTORY 


CHIEF JOSEPH 

ROBERT ANDREW MEIGS 
The Nez Perce 
1877, just as the Sioux War was coming to a
Iln 
close, the United States became embroiled in a 
senseless, unjustified war against the people of the Wallowa Valley in Northern Idaho. These people had never before been at war with the United States and it had always been their proud claim that no member of their tribe had ever killed a White Man. 
These people of the Wallowa Valley called themselves the Wallamwatkins and were a part of a larger tribe which they called the Chutepalu. Some White Men called the larger tribe the "Shakaptians" which was the Flatheadname for them. Lewis and Clark called them "Choppunish" and referred to them as "the Pierced Nose" Indians. It was the French Traders that gave them the name by which they are uni­versally known today-Nez Perce. 
Originally, the Nez Perce Indians were a part of the Plateau-Basin culture. They ate fish and roots and experimented with agriculture. Occasionally the Nez Perce would migrate to the Plains to hunt buffalo. Gradually they adopted the dress of the Plains Indians (although Nez Perce women continued to wear their basket-type headwear) and their art work began to reflect the influence of the Plains Tribes. 
Many historians have pointed out that the Nez Perce were superior to most of the neighboring tribes in material wealth and in general progress. They used, for example, a compound bow made from several pieces of Mountain Sheep horn that took something like three months to make and was better than any other bow found in the Americas. (Pl ease turn the page) 


HISTORY 

-
:/l 
w 
"' 
(l. 
« ::; 
0 
I « 
...J 
"' 
0 
c.. 
0 
.... 
>­The Appaloosa was
-"' Vl mount and because of 
w > 
-Nez Perce had a much 
z ::i 
as the horse meant better bun a transportation and a better mili
z 
« 
Vl 
situation for the Nez Perce. 
w 
7 
-
« I 

The Appaloosa 

Originally the Nez Perce were part of the Plateau-Basin Cul­ture. They ate fish and ex­perimented with agriculture. With the coming of the horse, the Nez Perce would migrate to the Plains to hunt buffalo. Their dress and art work were thereby influenced by that of the Plains Indians. 
The Nez Perce 

AROUND 1730 THE NEZ PERCE obtained their first horses and began to experiment in animal husbandry. Eventually they developed a superior mount that flour­ished on bunch grass and bushes. This horse was not only larger than most Indian ponies but it was ex­tremely agile as it was trained to scale the narrow ledges of the Bitterroot Mountains. 
The Appaloosa was the finest horse on the Plains and because of him the Nez Perce had a much better life in almost every aspect. The Horse meant better buffalo hunting, improved transportation and a better military situation for the Nez Perce. The Horse also meant increased material wealth for his owner. 
Eventually the Nez Perce too~ to migrating twice a year in order to hunt buffalo in Montana. More and more the people of the Wallowa Valley became like the Plains Indians. In the Spring of 1805 the Nez Perce sent three men to North Dakota where they were able to purchase ·six guns. The Nez Perce were destined to become not only the finest equestrian tribe on the Plains but also the most expert marksmen. 
The first direct contact between the Nez Perce and the White Man was made when Lewis and Clark ap­proached the junction of the Columbia and Snake Rivers on October 16, 1805. When the expedition was on its return from the Pacific coast, Lewis and Clark again met the Nez Perce and enjoyed the hospitality of Wearkkoompt (whom they called "the Bighorn Chief") who was the first chief of a large band of Nez Perce. 
The Lewis and Clark expedition apparently got along quite well with their Nez Perce hosts except for one interesting incident entered in the Journal of Meri­wether Lewis on May 5, 1806 : 
"While at dinner, an Indian fellow very imperti­nently threw a poor, half-starved puppy nearly into my plate by way of derision for our eating dogs, and laughed very heartily at his own im­pertinence. I was so provoked at his insolence that I caught the puppy and threw it with great violence at him and struck him in the breast and face, seized my tomahawk, and showed him by signs, if he repeated his insolence I would toma­
hawk him." (Pl ease turn the page) 

19 

HISTORY 
Tuekakas, father of Chief 
Joseph, advised him to 
never sell the land. 
H :;:,:'~r,.;r,,T ~ 
i,,, .· -. , , , ;., ~ re,w'' .f , .· .., 


A Nez Perce woman. Her dress shows the Lawyer, a N~z Perce chief, influence of the Plains Indians but her basketry sold land to the government hat is of the ancient Plateau-Basin tradition. without authority. 

he Nez erce 

DURING THE 1820's THE wealth of the Nez Perce increased significantly when they began to deal with the French tr aders~ So prosperous were the people of the Wallowa Valley, in fact, that by 1831 they were sending emissaries to St. Louis to enlist teachers to come live with them. In 1836, Rev. Henry H. Spalding and his wife opened a Presbyterian Mission near present day Lewiston, Idaho. The missionary was fairly successful in teaching the Nez Perce some of the White Man's arts and was able to convert many of them over to the Christian religion. 
Among Rev. Spalding's converts was the leader of the Wallamwatkin band of the "Lower Nez Perce," Tuekakas. In 1839 Tuekakas "legally" married one of his four wives and about six months later (April 12, 1849) his infant son "Ephraim" was given a Christian baptism. When Tuekakas was converted to the White Man's religion he had assumed the Christian name "Joseph." His son "Ephraim," whose Nez Perce name was Heinmot Tooyalakekt (which means Thunder Travel­ing to Loftier Mountain Heights) would be called "Young Joseph." 
Once Spalding's Mission was established in Nez Perce country White Men began to trickle into Northern Idaho. At first the Indians welcomed the settlers and even helped them become established. But around 1842 the land-hungry whites started coming into the area in a steady unending stream. After the Whitman Massacre in 1847 Spalding closed his mission at the request of the Nez Perce who held him responsible for the hordes of settlers who were stealing their lands. 
The situation continued to worsen as more whites poured into the Columbia Basin. At the Walla Walla Council of 1855, Maj. Issac Stevens, Governor of Washington Territory, was able to get the leaders of the various bands of all the tribes in the area to sign a treaty providing clear boundaries on all Indian land and protection of Indian rights on the newly es­tablished reservations. 
As with most treaties made between the Indians and the United States the Walla Walla Treaty was quickly broken by the White Man. Settlers started moving onto the reservation areas and forcing the Indian in­habitants off their homes. In the Fall of 1861 gold was discovered on the Lapwai Reservation in Northern Idaho and about ten thousand prospectors invaded the area. ( CONTINUED ON PAGE TWENTY EIGHT) 


21 


GRUNTS TO PATERNALISM= 





Stereotyping the Indian 
By Vin.e Deloria Jr. 

One reason that Indian people have not been heard from until recently is that we have been completely covered up by movie Indians. 
Western movies have been such favorites that they have dominated the public's conception of what Indi­ans are. It is not all bad when one thinks about the handsome Jay Silverheels bailing the Lone Ranger out of a jam, or Ed Ames rescuing Daniel Boone with some clever Indian trick. But the other myth­ologies that have wafted skyward because of the movies have blocked out any idea that there might be real Indians with real problems. 
Traditional stereotyp.~s pictured the black as a happy watermelon-eating darky whose sole contribution to American society was his indiscriminate substi­tution of the "d" sound for "th." Thus a black al­ways said "dis" and "dat," as in "lift dat bale." 
Mexicans were generally portrayed as shiftless and padded out for siesta, witho.ut any redeeming quali­ties whatsoever. 
Yet these groups were much better off than Indi­ans were. Indians were always devoid of any English whatsoever. They were only allowed to speak when an important message had to be transmitted on the screen. For example, "many pony soldiers die" was meant to indicate that Indians were going to attack the peaceful settlers who happened to have broken their 300th treaty moments before. Other than that , Indian linguistic ability was limited to "ugh" and "kemo sabe" (which means honky in some obscure Indian language) . 
While other groups have managed to make great strides since those days, Indians have remained the primitive unknown quantity. Even pictures that at­tempt to present the Indian side of the story depend upon unintelligible noises to present their message. The only exception to this rule is a line famed for its durability over the years. If you fall asleep during the Late Show and suddenly awaken to the words "go in peace my son," it is either an Indian chief bidding his son goodbye as the boy heads for college or a Roman Catholic priest forgiving Paul Newman or Steve McQueen for killing a hundred men in the preceding reel. 
Anyone raising questions about the image of mi­
nority groups as portrayed in television and the 
movies is automatically suspect as an m1-American 
and subversive influence on the minds of the young. 
The historical, linguistic and cultural differences are 
neatly blocked out by the fad of portraying members 
of minority groups in roles which formerly were 
Thus Burt Reynolds played Mohawk detective busy solving the crime problem New York City. Diahann Carroll played a well­black widow with small child in a television se that was obviously patterned after the unique s headed white family. 
Did Columbus really have a Cherokee on board when he set sail from Spain? 
In recent years the documentary has arisen present the story of Indian people and a number 
1

series on Black America have been produced. documentaries are singularly the same. A re and television crew hasten to either the NavaJO Pine Ridge reservation, quickly .shoot reels on po e conditions and return East blithely thinking that have captured the essence of Indian life• 
In spite of the best intentions, the eternal ye ing to present an exciting story of a strange ~ overcomes, and the endless cycle of poverty-one 
films continues. . ize This type of approach continually cate~orsee Indian as an incompetent boob who ca~ t, 0 get along and who is hopelessly mired in a ':ne of his own making. Hidden beneath these do~~ 1 ries is the message that Indians really ~ er live this way. No one has yet filmed the inh progress that is being made by the M~kar pi the Quinaults, Red Lake Chippewas, Gila Rive 
Documentaries project the nd oth~r~~ should be eliminated because re ervatio b· d There is no effort to 
are so a · · l'f
on . .d of Indian i e. 1>r1 ht studies programs and the

si i . 

ri e ~f :\~~~ history, the situation has n rninontY ~ who support these programs or e. peop ~nicating the best . aspects of a by com~ow solved the maJor problems \'e s~me lations with the rest of so­p in _it~ rethat black is beautiful or that rnphasi~infed the names of rivers to the contnbu feel that they have done 
many peop1e 
oup concerned. . 
gr s of each minority group's history point d Over by a sweetness-and-light 
0 
ered what we would like to think
0 
on bas~. ;hat did happen, we doom our­her t anf further racial strife. Most of
O
cades today emphasize the goodness 
Pr rams . ·t· 
. the different minority commum ies n_t 10 t present a balanced story. There
ing O • • 
two schools of interpretation runnmg ~f these efforts as the demand for black

1 
b own pride dominates the programs. ~ rives from the "All-American Pla­~ a decade ago. Under this theory
t O • 1 . 't
the respective racia mmori y grou~s nt role in the great events of Amen­. rCrispus Attucks, a black, almost _single~ rted the Revolutionary War, while _E~i neca Indian general, won the Civil ould have concluded it sooner had not 0 many stupid whites abroad in those i the "cameo" theory of history. It c "manifest destiny" white interpretation d lovingly plugs a few feathers, woolly ombreros into the famous events of Am­o one tries to explain what an In­helping the whites destroy his own 
we are now all Americans and have ents in common. rdity of the cameo school of ethnic pride 

•HDDlr nt. Little Mexican children are taught 
re some good Mexicans at the Alamo. refore be happy that Mexicans have been the significant events of Texas history. d bout the Mexicans on the other side 
o: The result is a denial · of a substantial 
e. If this trend continues I would not 
to discover that Columbus had a Chero­hen he set sail from Spain in search 
ith both f h 
e is that tho t ese types of ethnic role of mi ey. present an unrealistic nority groups in American 

history. Certainly there is more to the story of 
the American Indian than providing cocoa and pop­
corn for Columbus' landing party. When the clashes 
of history are smoothed over in favor of a mushy 
togetherness feeling, then people begin to wonder 
what has happened in the recent past that has created 
the conditions of today. 
It has been the feeling of younger people that con­
temporary problems have arisen because community 
leadership has been consistently betraying them. 
Older statesmen are called Uncle Toms, and the 
entire fabric of accumulated wisdom and experience 
of the older generation of minority groups is de­
stroyed. 
No one tries to explainthe Indian who was helping the whites des­troy his ow:r;i people. 
Rising against the simplistic cameo and .contribution schools is the contemporary desire by church leaders to make Christianity relevant to minority groups by transposing the entire Christian myth and archetypes into Indian, black and . Mexican terms. Thus Father Groppi, noted white-black priest, wants to have black churches show a black Christ. This is absurd, be­cause Christ was, as everyone knows, a Presbyterian, and he was a white man. That is to say, for nearly 2, 000 years he has been a white man. To suddenly show him as black, Mexican or Indian takes away the whole meaning of the myth. 
The Indian counterpart of the black Christ is the Christmas card portraying the Holy Family living in a hogan in Monument Valley on the Navajo reser­vation. On the Navajo reservation, his chances of surviving the first two years of life would be less than those of the original Jesus with Herod chasing him. (We have not yet reached the point of showing three officials from the Bureau of Indian Affairs coming up the canyon as the Three Wise Men, but someone with a keen sense of relevancy will try it sooner or later. ) 
Under present conceptions of ethnic studies there can be no lasting benefit either to minority groups or to society at large. The pride that can be built into children and youth by acknowledgment of the validity of their group certainly cannot be built by simply transferring symbols and interpretations aris­ing in white cultural history into an Indian, black or Mexican setting. The result will be to make the minority groups bear the white man's burden by using his symbols and • stereotypes as if they were their own. 
The problem of stereotyping is not so much a racial problem as it is a problem of limited know­ledge and perspective. Even though minority groups have suffered in the past by ridiculous characteri­zations of themselves by white society, they must not fall into the same trap by simply reversing the process that has stereotyped them. Minority groups must thrust through the rhetorical blockade by creat­ing within themselves a sense of "peoplehood." 
This alternately means the creation of a new histo­ry and not mere amendments to the histo:r:ical in­terpretations of white America. 
Adapted from "We TalJc, You Liaten" © "1 Vine Deloria J'f,, MocmiUan. 
Vine Delo;ria's, a Standing Rock Sioux, first two books Custer Died For Your Sins and We Talk, You Listen have been overwhelming successes. His latest book, Of Utmost Good Faith, is an epic record of the spe­cific public incidents and institutional decisions by which the United States expropriated and nearly de­stroyed the native American. 

Buffy Sainte-Marie 

SUSUtpOat ~ 
?~H~,eop& 
T
he best-known fighter for the 
American Indian since Geronimo 
is a spunky, sexy, 100-pound 
girl named Buffy Sainte-Marie. 

Buffy, who's a full-blooded Cree 
Indian herself, fights for her people 
with her voice, her personality, and 
her money. She's got plenty of each, 
because she's one of the most suc­
cessful folk singers in the business, 
with particular appeal to the campus 
crowd and other young people. 
Lately Buffy has been doing more 
than singing about the Red Man's 
plight. She's established a foundation 
to send young Indians through law 
school. She's been issuing blasts 
against the new trends in ~ndian 
fashions which, she says, no Indian 
woman in her right mind would be 
seen wearing, even if she could af­
ford them. And while she's appreci­
ative of the efforts of other enter­
tainers like Jane Fonda and Candice 
Bergen to help the cause, she thinks 
the Indians themselves are the only 
ones who can grapple with the real 
issues. 
Buffy, who started composing and 

singing her own songs at the age of 
16, is a dynamic personality on the 
platform. Her frail, 5-foot-2 figure 
seems to take on almost a statuesque 
quality, and her exotic black eyes gleam with intensity. Says a record company executive: "She can look monumental, like some ancient god­dess, one minute, and the next she can seem as plaintive as Pocahontas." 
Buffy's voice has the same double­edged quality: she can sing a gentle love ballad in a little-girl whisper, and then pour out a gutsy protest song with an emotional vibrato that is peculiarly her own. 
Of love and protest 
The raven-haired Buffy sings about many things besides Indians. Her subjects are the ones on young peo­ple's minds-war, drugs, love, finding your qwn way. "I sing about the things I care about," she says. "It's like rapping with the kids in a con­versation." 
But an edge really comes into her voice when she sings about her own people. In songs like "Now That the Buffalo's Gone" she bitterly denounces this country's policy toward Indians, past and present. Sometimes she says to her audience afterward: "I hope you're offended." Too often, though, she feels frustrated because the audience cheers the songs and ignores the problem. 
Buffy, who was born in Canada, a 
member of the Cree tribe, was or­
phaned as a baby and rai Indian couple from anothers;d by Micmacs. She spent her rt~ in New England, going to h' c~ in Wakefield, Mass. ig Ba 
"I wanted above all to be a bl she recalls. "My ambition w to be a cheerleader and then as line stewardess-you know ~ 
1 
average girl. Then I reaiized as the average girl. I was a f so I decided to be myself." au 
Self-taught 
Buffy began composing wbe father gave her a guitar as an sent. Nobody ever taught he to play ·or sing; she still dr read music, and sings her tune a tape recorder rather than them down. She found that 1 things by herself had advantage . the guitar she invented her own patterns and tunings, giving chords a strangely distinctive She began singing for friends at University of Massachusetts which she was graduated i; 1 and wound up performing for at the Village Gate, the Bitt.er and other New York folk-song beds. Although other folk s have come and gone since Sainte-Marie, now a veteran' of still knows how to turn out that have a relevance for the c audience. 
Not worried 
"I'm not worried about this g 
ation at all," she says. "I 
they're learning to do their own 
search. That's why they que 
what the politicians tell them. 
against campus violence; it's an 
moded, out-of-date tactic. It d 
work, and I think the kids know 
I wish they would start voting 
start running for office themsel 
Many kids over 18 are not v 
they just sit around complaining, 
that's not good." 
Buffy's biggest hit is "Until 
Time for You to Go," which 
been recorded not only by be 
but by Barbra Streisand, Glen C 
bell, Chet Atkins, Johnny 
Sonny and Cher and many o 
Lately she's been composing 
for motion pictures like The 
berry Statement and Soldier Blu 
is publishing a songbook and .a 
book-the latter offering recipe8 
such Indian delicacies asads 
squash blossoms and a bre 
from tree moss. 
Far from going for fake cl 
fashions, Buffy makes her own ar 
and is just as likely to ap~ 
fetching yellow mini, a wbinite 
midi, or a purple velvet tu c 
blue jeans. 
"Just don't look for rne iD 
skin and fringes , " she saY8• 
(H UBER T KUP F ERBE RG) 

pl'BLICATIONS OF NOTE: Watch!or 
le r Creek, an ecology magazine quality which contains excel_lent ·cles by the Indians of All Tribes 
roup from Alcatraz. . •. The new emoiselle contains a glossy spread herman Institute Indian students 
m eling contemporary tribal fashions. 
...The American Airlines magazine Hable on flights is running a ree-part series on the Red Man m America which is outstanding. 
. . . ewsweek (June 14) carries a en itive story on the dilemma of lndi ns stranded in the nation's cities. 

t},-.,M~,-., 
G~tt..,es 
4 
~tt~ 

f.:,ys 
Some Indian games were and competitive and were 

with balls, rackets, javelins, sticks and hoops. Some were guessing games. Adults played most of the games as part of religious cere­monials. Children played with tops, stilts, popguns and quoits; also, they ran races and staged mimic battles. 
The following Indian games are made from simple mat.erials : 

<ID CD ® © 
d. 
HIDDEN STICK (Tewa Indians) 4 mailing tubes 1 stick -1/411 wooden dowel 411 long 2 Paper cups 1 large container of dried corn, 
beans or peas, to be used as count.ers Wax crayons or t.empera paint 
Fast.en a piece of paper over one end of tube for bottom. Paint red and black designs on tube and bottom. Paint stick red, green, yellow and black. Players : Two t.eams of four or 
more. 
Game : First t.eam hides stick in­
side one of the tubes. Then lay tubes carefully on floor or table with the closed end toward the guessing t.eam. One player from this t.eam starts game by choosing the tube in which he thinks the stick is hidden. If he loses, the next child takes his turn and so on, until one child guesses cor­rectly. 
Score: If stick is found in first 
tube drawn, the team gets t.en beans; second tube, six beans, fourth tube, four beans. However, if stick is found in the third tube, all the tubes are given to the guessing side and it is their turn to hide them. Winning t.eam is the one· that gets the most beans.

• • Take it 
back? We 
it IlOW!'' 



HISTORY 
Conquest Of Aboriginal Lands: Part VIII 




TECUMSEH 
and the War of 1812 
RUDY JAY CASAZZA 


TECUMSEH, THE INDIAN CHRIST. AS HE TRAVELED TO VARIOUS IN­DIAN COUNCIL FIRES, HE SAW A POWERFUL, AMALGAMATED COA­LITION OF INDIAN STRENGTH AND POWER. HIS DREAM WAS INDIAN, AND WELL AHEAD OF }IIS TIME; HE ESTABLISHED AN INDIAN CENTER, A VILLAGE WHERE ALL INDIANS WOULD BE WELCOME, REGARDLESS OF TRIBAL AFFILIATION••• IT MATTERS NOT OF WHAT TRIBE, ONLY THAT IT IS INDIAN! TO ALL HIS MESSAGE WAS THE SAME : "NO ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; NO SMOKING OF MARIJUANA; STUDY CLOSELY THE WAYS OF THE WHITE MAN, AND TAKE NO PART IN THE WHITE MAN'S WAR WITH ANOTHER WHITE MAN••• " 
A
nd it came to pass in about the year 1768, and was the custom of his tribe, Chief Pucksinwa and his spouse traveled to the metropolis of their Nation in order that they might take part in the an­nual governmental council. On route was born their fifth child, TECUMSEH. No believers in birth con­trol, later a third daughter, and two more sons, twins, one of which being the Shawnee Prophet, the John the Baptist for the Indian Christ, TECUMSEH, were added to the family. 
At the age of 15, Tecumseh traveled to the tem­ples of his nation; at these Council Fires, as was not tradition, politely argued with the wise, elderly advisers of the various tribes, and in .an impassioned speech, denounced cruelty as unworthy of real men, particularly of Shawnee, and vowed that he would never take part in the torture of man or beast; nor would he consider his friend, any man who allowed himself to engage in such a degrading act. The vigorous manner and eloquence with which the fifteen year old Tecumseh spoke, so impressed his elders and companions, that they agreed never again to torture. 
Numerous were the occasions that Tecumseh tected women and children from the cruelties of At the Battle of Ft. Megis he defended the Ameri Colonel John Dudley from the inhuman death orde by the British General, Henry A. Proctor, a man. The statesman-warrior declared the Brl General unfit to command, and placed the ca American under the protection of Shawnee warrl Tecumseh never altered from his resolution, quickly rose to prominence as an Indian sta~ to non-Indians; and as a kind of Indian Chris Indians; to all he was publicly known, admired, trusted. 
A product of one of the most critical period Indian history, Tecumseh was involved in c~ and wars. The Indian Christ, "The greateSt 
8

who ever lived" was to cost the United States GoV I'nent $5,000,000 and 20, 000 soldiers !o halt( dream of Indian Unity. In the end, the ideal 0 dian Unity only smouldered, for in following _ge ations and epochs of Indian history, Indian uni: been rekindled and burns boldly in the bear d actions of dedicated, progressive, and concerne 




all tribes, be they militant or non­froJll i,nt, an Indian Christ, was no ordinary tribal reeurnseh, accepted the leadership of Joseph Brant, Ill· fie who had been unable to persuade the obawk, federacy to ally with the Indians of the ois c on Tecumseh considered Brant's failure a 0 alleY• of the defeat of the Indians. The Indian jor caus~ed of a confederation that embraced all t drea North to South of the Mississippi; he fro~elieved that this unity was the Indian's rely f survival and the answer to the land
bope o 
hite man. 

wil of 1788, Chiksika was killed in battle. Apr . ing Kispokotha Shawnee who were then rem_~~ the Cherokees against the white man, 
; 1 umseh into military leadership. Repeatedly 
t :s band to victory. He possessed an un­led ck of assessing any situation in an instant 
kna 1 . h' h t
ti g immediate y m a manner w 1c a once cthn scales to his favor. The Shawnee realized ~her Indian approached the qualifications for 
~:~p as did the Indian Christ, Tecumseh. 
The lands belong to the Indian tribes forever! 
Tecumseh was aware of the progressive deteri­on of the Indian culture, and had watched with n foresight the advance of the white man. He certain in his belief, as are all Indians, that lands belong to the Indian tribes forever, no r by what show of governmental legality or of Christianity" the lands might be taken from Indians. He did not want to drive the white completely from the mainland, but held that y hould live to the terms of the treaties signed, tay beyond the Ohio, as set by treaty. He ed to have any part of the peace treaty signed August, 1795 (Ft. Greenville). As far as Te­rn eh was concerned, that treaty violated other ties , and it was thievery of Indian lands, and agreement with the white man was worthless. treaty took from the Indians twenty-five thousand are miles of land now within the State of Indiana, well as sixteen tracts within lands already es­blished by the Federal Government as Indian reser­·on land ! He is recorded as stating "no treaty 
11 keep whites out of our lands..." It is believed about this time he decided to continue the idea e Iroquois Confederacy. 
'here he was most successful as a leader of men, cumseh was not so fortunate a leader in his own ehold. He married a beautiful Peckuwe maiden med Monetohse. She bore him one son. Monetohse hinot content as the wife of a chief, and mother e _son. She was demanding and found fault in thing her husband did. Tecumseh was able to
1
er ook her behavior toward him but was not able o_verlook her negligence in c~ring for his son. r 1?voked Shawnee marital law, dissolved their riage, sent his wife back to her parents in dis­~e , and placed the care of his son under the r eth of his older sister, Tecumapese. Shortly rnect ~ treaty at Greenville, he took another wife, sbort~mate. She gave birth to one son, and -way-na Y afterward. The son was named Nay­
h, and placed under the care of Tecuma­

ring h· . 
Ille frie ~s r~se to fame, Tecumseh met and be-n s with a white family named Galloway. 
1 971 

The two talked matters of religion, politics, ethics, and literature. James Galloway's daughter, Rebecca, taught the chief to read such complicated books as Hamlet. When she turned seventeen, he requested her hand in marriage. Rebecca thought the matter over for a month, and agreed to marry the chief, if he would adopt her mode of life and dress. Te­cumseh thought the matter over for a month, and returned with the words that to do so would lose him the respect and leadership of his people. Re­becca, truly in love with the chief, wept as the two departed for the last time. Tecumseh never again married, and carried to his grave the memory of lovely Rebecca. 
Back on the public life, in 1798, the Delawares, who had been several times removed from reser­vation lands granted to them by the Federal Govern­ment, went to the young chief and invited him and his Shawnees to live with them on Delaware lands, hoping the chief would lead them in their plight against the . Federal Government. Tecumseh joined the Delawares and it is at this point in his life that we might begin to compare him as the Indian Christ, if such a comparison is cared to be made. 
"Soon after joining the Delawares, Tecumseh began traveling and addressing councils (temples) of various Indian tribes in an effort to bring them into what he saw as a powerful amalgamation of Indian strength and power... " He visited the councils of the Iroquois Confederacy in the east; spoke to the Wyandots, and Potawatomies, and others. The Hurons, Ottawas, Chippewas, Foxes, Sacs, Winnebagos, and Menomi­nees of Michigan, Wisconsin, and Canada gathered to hear him, as did the Sioux, Mandans and Chey­ennes west of the Mississippi; the Natchez and Choc­taws of Mississippi, traditional enemies, listened and buried the tomahawk. In the South, Creeks, Semi­noles, Chickasaws, Alabamas, Biloxis, and Cherokees heard his message. 
Tall, handsome, and modesi, the Indian Christ found himself with a large number of followers. Re­fraining from boasting, preferring to let his actions speak for themselves, thus others, seeing in him the makings of a great chief, were more apt to boast for hi rn. Everything Tecumseh did turned out 
(Continued on page 29) 
vlllll' ·; ' I~ \\ rl :' ·!%,fl
\\ \; I I \•\I . 
\~. :,. i' . ·' . 
..\,,· 
27 

illun0~.@nm illmm[bm0.0 


The Nez Perce 

(CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWENTY ONE) 
IN 1863 ANOTHER TREATY COUNCIL was held by the Federal Government in order to get the Nez Perces to sell their land to the United States. Lawyer, one of the leaders of the Upper Nez Perce sold a large portion of Nez Perce land to the Government including the Wallowa Valley which did not belong to the Upper Nez Perce at all but was the property of the Lower Nez Perce. Tuekakas and his Wallamwatkins had boy­cotted the Council and now refused to have anything to do with this new arrangement. 
While the Upper Nez Perce were being herded onto the Lapwai Reservation, Tuekakas planted poles around the land of the Wallamwatkins and flatly stated: 
"Inside is the home of my people-the white man may take the land outside. Inside this boundary all our people were b9rn. It circles around the graves of our fathers, and we will never give up these graves to any man. " 

Those Nez Perce bands that had not signed the Treaty of 1863 became known as the Non-treaty Nez Perce. These people did not feel bound to the Treaty nor did they feel that the Upper Nez Perce had any right to sell the Wallowa Valley. In 1868, the Sec­retary of the Interior declared that-all Nez Perce Indians were subject to the Treaty of 1863. Tuekakas responded by burning the New Testament given him by the missionaries. The Non-treaty Nez Perce while remaining at peace with the White Men declared them­selves independent of the United States. 
By now old Tuekakas was blind and feeble and when the Federal agent requested another meeting the chief sent his oldest son to represent him. This is the first known speech of Chief Joseph: 
"I did not want to come to this council, but I came hoping that we could save blood. The white man has no right to come here and take our country. We have never accepted presents from the Government. Neither Lawyer nor any other chief had authority to sell this land. It has al­ways belonged to my people. It came unclouded to them from our fathers, and we will defend this land as long as a drop of Indian blood warms the hearts of our men. " 

The agent insisted that if Joseph complied with the orders (that couldn't be changed anyway) the Govern­ment would see that the Nez Perce would be well provided for. Joseph replied; 
"I do not need your help; we have plenty, and we are contented and happy if the white man will let us alone. The reservation is too small for so many people with all their stock. You can keep your presents; we can go to your towns .and pay for .all we need; we have plenty of horses and cattle to sell, and we won't have any help from you; we are free now; we can go where we please. Our fathers were born here. Here they lived, here they died, here are their graves. We will never leave them. " 

When old Tuekakas realized that he was about to die he called Young Joseph, who was now the Chief of the Wallamwatkins, to s.peak with him for the last 


time. Years later, Chief parting: 
"I saw he was dying. I . He said: "My son, my body is retur . 1n mother earth, and my spirit is goingning to the Great Spirit Chief. When I am very of your country. You are the chief of fine. ple. They look to you to guide them ese remember that your father never sold hi8 · This country holds your father's body the bones of your father and mother: " "I pressed my father's hand and told h' would protect his grave with my life. ~rn smiled and passed away to the spirit-la ~ "I buried him in that beautiful valley n f winding waters. I love that land more ?1. __ the rest of the world. " "'WIil 
Next Month; Part Two : The Outbreak! 

YEAR 19 70 
The Cold, Hard Facts 
If you were an Indian... -Your life span would be 42 to 44 years, 21 years shorter than that of your fellow citi­zens; 
s 

-Your income would be $1, 5 00, 75 per cent below the national average, and $1, 000 lower than the average black family; 
H 

-You would have, on the aver­age, five years of schooling, and your probability of unem­ployment would be ten times 
A

the national average; -The mortality rate of your child during the first year of life would be twice that of a white baby; 
M 

-The suicide rate of your teenager would be 100 times that of whites; -The odds would be 2-to-1 
E 

that your child would never finish high school and 100-to-1 that he would · not graduate from college; -You would have a 400 per 
• 

cent greater chance of con­
' 

tracting tuberculosis and an 800 per cent. higher chance of acquiring hepatitis; -You would likely live without plumbing or bathing facilities in a two-or three-room board shack. 

The Art Of Tanning Hides 
(SHOSHONE METHOD) 
ELIZABETH BRADY 

Tecumseh and· the War of 1812 ·. 
(CONTINUED . FROM PAGE 2 7) 
well, even the miracle he ,promised fell into --th1e pattern of events. Lowawluwaysica, his brother, through the planning of Tecumseh, became a Prophet, the Indian John the Baptist, for the Indian Christ. But in the end, it was Prophet's betrayal that ended the dream of Indian Unity. Thus the Baptist became the Judas in a somewhat biblical comparison. Schon­field's . Passover Plot was 172 years too late, and about the wrong Christ! 
To ·all, the Indian Christ urged his people to "pro­hibit the consumption of any alcoholic beverages and the smoking of marijuana. 11 He urged his fellow In­dians to study closely and seriously the ways of the white man, and to break all alliances existing be­tween themselves and the white man, and to take no part in the white man's fight with other whites. He hoped to create a picture of a weak Indian, swelling his pride, unwilling to fight until the time was ready, the time when all Indians would fight together. Te­cumseh saw clearly that if the Indians of all tribes could be persuaded that they had a common bond, the land, all might act in unison to defend it. He continued to travel, recruiting tribe upon tribe into his confederation. He told them that when the period of waiting was over, and tribal unification had been completed, he would give them a sign. He would stamp his foot, and the earth would roar. Great trees would fall, rivers would change their course, lakes would be swallowed up into the earth, and new lakes would elsewhere appear. On that day, they should leave their camps and fields, and assemble across the lake from Ft. Detroit. On that day tribes would cease to exist; they would all be Indians, one people united forever for the good of all. 
(TO BE CONTINUED) 



of hide, getting 
very important part life of the Native They provided him with rom the shoes (Moccasins) home he lived in. hides, then, was the women of the by the children. This taught me to tan 
use a knife. Peel _hands by pulling. in plain water for 
changing water fre­use salt. The se­water clean and the skin from foul 
time keep ·t . 
1 m a
0 not let the water approximately 3 days soft. Buck hide 

tely 3 d 
ays, depend-
e. Doe hides do much time and fawn 
less. 
do, _n with sheep craping easier. Put m~oth tree slab and
with ·b 
n bones until The neck area 
lly the most dif­
1 97 1 
ficult to scrape. 

Soak the hide again for one day in plain water, changing water fre­quent1y. After one day remove from the water and all hair will drop off. 
Cook the brains, making sure not to overcook. Put the cooked brains in a sack, squeezing all the juice out until the brains become color­less. (See that all dark pigment is removed so as not to discolor the hide.) Add one cup of lard to brains and mix. Put this mixture on both sides of the hide, roll the hide up, and place in a cool place for one day. 
After one day wash the skin in warm water with plain Ivory soap (no detergent). Squeeze and stretch the hide by taking the end of the skin on a stick. Always sit in a shady spot, never in a breeze, or the skin will dry out too fast before you get through pulling. Sometimes the skin doesn't turn to the desired color with one operation. In that case, repeat by mixing another batch of brains and lard. Keep trying un­til it turns-don't give up. Tip: Don't do the edge first. Start in the center of the hide when you're pulling. After you have the desired effect, wash the hide clean and hang up to dry. The hide will be white. 
For a tan color effect, use Juni­per bark without sap. White pine is best because it doesn't have any sap. Make chips out of the bark and dig a hole in the ground the size of the circumference of your hide. Sew the hide together, shaping it into a teepee effect. Next sew any kind of heavy material at the bottom of the hide so that the hide will not be damaged or burned when the chips are burning. Make sure all the holes in the skin are re­paired, except for one-plug this with Kleenex tissue. Then place the teepee shaped hide over the hole in which the chips are smoldering; make sure the bottom edge of the tent is completely covered with dirt so no air gets in the tent. After five minutes or so check the color of the Kleenex tissue for shade. When you have the desired color (about 15 to 20 minutes) take the skin apart and hang the hide in the air. Store skins in a cool place. 
For cleaning buckskin, use white chalk-it is kind of oily. Rub the buckskin thoroughly with the chalk and then brush. 
29 


No Longer Vanishing 
Indian Population 

The 1970 Census of American Indians. living in the land of the United States was 791,839, an increase of 50% over the last 10 years. Since 1890, the growth pattern looks like this: 
1890, the growth pattern looks like this: 1890.......•.. 248,253 1900.......... 237,196 1910.......... 265,683 1940........•.333,929 1960..•.•..•.• 523,591 

More than 50% of the Indian population lives in 5 states: Oklahoma, Arizona, California, New Mexico and North Carolina. Interesting facts: 
the Alabama Indian population doubled from 1960 to 1970, while Montana re­mained about the same. the move to the cities, relocation pro­grams accounted for a jump in Cali­fornia from 39 to 91 thousand, in Colo­rado from 4 to 8, 000 and even Florida from 2 to 6, 000. 
The 1970 preliminary count, by State: 
Oklahoma 97, 731 Missouri 5,405 Arizona 95,812 Louisiana 5,366 California 91, 018 Wyoming 4,980 N. Mexico 72,788 Virginia 4,904 N. Carolina 43,487 N.Jersey 4,706 Washington 33,386 Mass. 4,475 S. Dakota 32,365 Maryland 4,258 New York 28,330 Miss. 4,113 Montana 27, 130 Indiana 3,887 Minnesota 23, 128 Iowa 2,992 Wisconsin 18, 924 Alabama 2,514 Texas 18,132 Georgia 2,455 Michigan 16, 854 Tennessee 2,376 Alaska 16,276 s .. carolina 2, 241 N. Dakota 14,369 Conn. 2,222 Oregon 13,510 Maine 2,.195 Illinois 11,413 Arkansas 2,041 Utah 11,273 Kentucky 1,599 Colorado 8, 836 Rhode Is. 1,390 Kansas 8,672 Hawaii 1, 126 Nevada 7,933 D. C. 956 Florida 6,719 W. Va. 808 Ohio 6, 654 Delaware 656 Nebraska 6,624 N. Hamp. 361 Idaho 6,687 Vermont 229 Penna. 5,533 

LAND ALLOTTMENT ACT 
(Continued from page two) 
possible before the choice lands are g 
Years ago the federal government 
these lands from the Indians because 
said they needed them for forts, lllilt 
installations, roads, railroads, homeste 
and other purposes. 
Today, the federal government is s they no longer need these lands-that are surplus. Who is more entitled to properties than their original owners­Native American. According to the Allotment Act of 1887, a Sioux treaty, N Americans have an inalienable prerogattv possession of any obsolete Federal la 
The American Indian is America's deprived and exploited minority: 
The lowest level of education-5th 
The lowest life expectancy.;._44 years 
The lowest income-50% under $1,500 
The highest infant mortality rate 
The highest suicide rate 
The highest rate of alcoholism 
President Nixon acknowledged these reali­ties when he stated that the "first Ame 
cans-are the most deprived and isol 
minority in the nation. '' 
These surplus lands are needed for sch health clinics, hospitals, half-way houses alcoholics and prisoners, Indian culture ce ters, Pow-wow Grounds, Indian Centers, Care Centers, Athletic Fields, Hous Museums, ... 
The precedent for securing surplus si has been set-the Native Americans won their first major victory in 100 y when they received the deed to three dollars worth of surplus federal property April 3, 1971 in order to establish nawidah-Quetzalcoatl Univer$ity at Davis, C ifornia. 
Get a group of Indian educators togetbe Form a corporation (only three are ne LOOK AROUND FOR A SUITABLE SITE FO A SCHOOL. 
Join RSLIP, a national committee to TURN SURPLUS LANDS TO INDIAN PEOP which is now being formed. The purpose the group is to research Surplus SiteS make the information available to interes Indian Tribes and organizations. Direct quiries to the attention of Grace TbO RSLIP, 4339 California Street, San Franoi California 94118. 

ator Mond ale Chides ~•:, Indian Policy
O }{INGTON, D. C. (AIPA): Sen. AS F. Mondale, in recent sub­
alte\tee hearings, dispatched a ornOU f barbs at a wide range ~s some memorable jabs: targ\ad turned over to the In-If w\be monies spent on the va­tudies of the various Indian 5 s they'd be rich now-and tern ' d, " "If t od
. g us instea . . . . we s o~yr Indian children the way we ~ behind Thieu and Ky of South 
..,,, what changes could be 
··e1 tnau•,
e!". . ." Wouldn't the _idea of the following the Indian, rather 
Y . h
the Indian following t e money, lot better for living?" 
Morton To Review 
Western States Pro;ects 
ASHINGTON, D.C. (AIPA): A core staff will accompany Interior cretary Rogers C. B. Morton l this summer to Denver, Colo. hicb will be his working regional office for a month as he reviews Interior projects and operations in the Western states and examines the interrelations of the various bureaus under his authority. On the Secretary's agenda: visits to re ervations, national parks, and 
ilderness areas. Interior assist­t secretaries will accompany him on an alternate basis. 
In our schools children are not taught that the Iroquois ounded a nation larger in rritory than the Roman Em­ire and that it was the first to have a purely representative 
overnment. 
SUBSCRIP TION 

NAVAJO FRIED BREAD 
4 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon salt Milk to make of biscuit dough 
consistency. 

Knead well as for yeast bread. Take 1/4 of dough at a time and roll to piecrust size (it will be thicker than piecrust). Cut into triangular pieces and fry in iron skillet in hot fat at least 4 in­ches deep. Best when hot. 
ALEUT BARBECUED TISH 
Remove backbone of fish and flatten the meat. Cut into strips. Put a long, sharp stick between 
the  skin  and  flesh of each  strip.  
Sprinkle  with salt.  Stick  one  end  
of  stick  into  ground,  leaning  it  

across a small fire with lots of coals. Cook until done. 
CHIPPEWA WILD RICE 
1 cup wild rice. Wash thor­
oughly in cold water. 3 cups boiling salted water or meat broth. Add rice to boiling water, 
cover, bake or boil very slowly until water is absorbed. 
DONATION FORM 

En lo s ed is my subscri ption donation of Five Doll ar s ($5 .00) . Please mail the next twelve 
i s sues o f • • I ND I AN VO I CE' ' to: 

CITY: 
STATE: _ _ _____ ZIP: ___ 


,-,)~ J>fMH~Y-efJEffr> 
~ P .O. BOX 2033 ~ 
SANTA CL ARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 

J L ·AUGU ST 1 971 
OMAHA HOMINY 
Cut boiling beef into pieces. Boil with your seasonings for 1 hour. 1/2 cups dry hominy for 1 hour more. 
bite-size favorite Add 1­
and cook 

MONO HUMMOGA 
Soak equal parts of barley and wheat kernels for 20 minutes to 1/2 hour. Remove outer skin by rubbing. Let dry. Roll on flat rock until fine. Add crushed pine nuts for flavor. Serve with man­zanita wine poured over it. 
DRIED CORN INDIAN STYLE 
1. 
Roast fresh ears in pit. Build fire in pit, cover with wet leaves, then add corn, cover well with leaves and dirt on top of that. Roast several hours un­til done. Cut corn off cob and finish drying in the sun. (Takes several days) 

2. 
Same as above, only boil corn, then cut off and dry in sun. 

3. 
Dry corn on the cob in the sun. Turn every day until tho­roughly dry. 


I "~ v~ 
~ [,.. ,-:-f1 

~' 
)1'(' 




JIit\ 
i61;" 



,K • ,7i ,(,I / ~ \~ 
"Your Used 
,~' ,I~\i \ 
~ J~i!~;_ -.__ 
Ji I ' Al 
~ q.-l,al,:,~----, 

,.,--~ 
Friendly Horse Dealer " 
31 


. .

WHY THE STONY FACE? 
. 
.
The white man asks: 
.

Oh, Indian, why sad and stony face? 
.

Immobile, silent, gazing into empty space; 
.

Is it perhaps the dread that winter comes too 
.
soon, 
.

Or white man's smog which dims the once­
.
clear moon? 
.

Has modern times so etched upon your brow, 
.

a scorn of all the progress here so lately born, ..Or do you rue the day you smoked the pipe 
.
of peace 
.

And sealed your word to make the war dance 
.
cease? 
.

And the Indian replies: Why the stony face? You ask me, and I will .
.
tell: 
.

Yes, face is sad, and heart is sad as well; 
.

I dread not winters cold nor white man's 
.
smoke, 
.

Nor modern things he brings, nor treaties 
broken. . You call me Indain, you 'merican, you say; ..I here for ages past before you come this 
.
way 
.

I true 'merican, you foreigner to shore; And now you ask, I tell you one thing more; . You conquer land, now air to breathe, he's . 
not my own; . And freedom of my hunting ground, he is .
.
gone; 
.

Perhaps you too, would have the face of 
.

stone, If all your ancient heritage were gone. . You'd gaze, like me across the grassy knoll, . Defying powers, that be, to ask, also your . 
.
soul. 
. 
. . 







