



2 . ................................................... 
. -w~IMM~~~ . 
EDITOR I Al 
. Indian Voice, the all-Indian monthly maga-. zine, is published by the Native American 
. . 
RATTLESNAKE ISLAND 
. Publishing Company, a non-prortt organiza-. tion, to present an authentic view of the 
Occupation or Ownership.
. American Indian history, culture and heri-. tage. It will endeavor to express the hopes, --· ·,.· . . fears and aspirations of those who are the . true Native Americans. Photocomposition. and make-up of pages is accomplished by .. 
. Indian-owned Computype Phototypesetting . Company ofSacramento. 


·. .
. EDITOR . 
FERN WILLIAMS 

. (Dakota) .
ASSOCIATE EDITOR 
. DEAN CHAVERS . 
(Lumbee) . ASSOCIATE EDITOR .
SMOKEY SILENT FOX 
. QDakota) .
SECRETARY-TREASURER 
. CAROLE STUBBS . 
(Dakota) ILLUSTRATOR 

. ARCHIE BLACKSMITH . 
(Dakota) . ILLUSTRATOR . 
IDA RYAN 

. (Chippewa) . 
. STAFF . 

RUDY CASAZZA 

The Pomo Indians of the Sulphur
. (Seneca) . 
Bank rancheria last year took over -oc­

. ANN HANSEN . 
cupied -Rattlesnake Island in Clear Lake, northern California. They claimed 
(Acoma-Pueblo) 

. 
ARTHUR MILLARD . the land was theirs, and had been for 

. 
(Ouechan) . hundreds of years. It is their old burial 



JERRY ROYBAL 

grounds, and some of them can remem­
. (Jicarilla) . ber when it was used. The land was then "owned" by Boise

. ROBERT MEIGS . 
(Cherokee -Choctaw) Cascade Land Company, who planned to turn it into a resort development and

. JIM RACINE . 
bring in summer renters from San Fran­
. (Pikuni-Blackfoot) . 
cisco. The Pornos resented it. It would 
. ARLEEN DILTS . have been right in their back yard.
(Haida) 

Returning the land to the El-Em band 
. CORINNE GARZA . is being held up. Boise Cascade has said 
(Thlinget-Haid-a) 

they are willing to turn the land over to 
. WILLARD HARRIS . the Pornos, but one piece of paper denies the Pornos the right to the island -a
. (Navajo) . 
title, and this title was gotten illegally.
. LARRY WHITE EAGLE . 
(Dakota) During the 1940's the federal govern­ment listed both the island and the main­

. BERNADINE BEGAY . 
(Navajo) land areas formerly belonging to the El­Em band to the state of California, claim­
. DEBORAH LAMEBULL . ing title unilaterally; no treaty has ever 
. (Gros Ventre) . 
been made with the Pornos. The Indians 
. NONA KEEVAMA . did not sign their land away, but Boise 
(Hopi) 

Cascade has "acquired" title to the land. Does that mean it belongs to them ?

. GREGORY AMADON . 
(Chickasaw) 

The El-Ems said "No" and reclaimed their island in the spring of 1970. Since. . then at least one family from the band
. SUBSCRIPTION DONATION . 
has lived on the island at all times, even 
.-$5.00 Yearly ~ 
though there have been no sanitary (continued on page
........................... facilities, no water, and no electricity . 




. d from p age 2) 

II 1nU 
(. ilifornia Indian Legal
D ' .
h U1d led the negot1a­
h1 h I1,1 . , . 1· 
l ,icl ,ippears wil mg to 
• ilit, Bo1 e Cascade 

I 'd I.H k LO the _Pom~s. But t Illlll, · . rt: ih cl cl tran_act10n can I of the land 1 needed. pr 1 .1 . b f ?
ulcl the ,1ppra1 al e or. t ihc Pomo i They know '1 nd i \,•orth. Their fathers ,c. their r,1ther 'fathers be­nd tl,e, them -Ive -ha~e _been llllll" I he land has limitless Ill t0ntain -their bur~al
11 \\ ell ,1 th ir ceremonial I hn don't intend to let n ht i land. ll I he Pomo -, or a piece of
1 t dc.:nic th ance ·tral back­th i land~ It would do away >Ur i,11 ~round -, their dance nd the round house site. It lncli,111! I l,111cl i· valuable in till \ lthoursh it is mostly .111011 m,1ke it worth Boise ll 111io11. It i ·urrounded by a mi.ti ,11 ,1, Clear Lake Oaks. hm· do' not carry onto the r 1hr 1 l,111d . The mainland of hacks and out­. ·ulphur Bank 110 electricity until ~racled roads until no tel phones until are ·till considered 

**** ************* 
Indian Voice 
Wants Your Articles 
and Short Stories 
Want to write for us? We need you to do it. T here is something happening in your area that the rest of the world should know about. Or there is a short story waiting in your head. 
Write them down. Then send them to Indian Voice. If you can send us pictures as well, we will at least pay you for the cost of the film. W e want to pay you for writing, but at the moment we don't have money for it. With you help we will have the quality in our magazine that will make money for us -then we can pay 
you. 
We started the magazine because we felt that Indians needed a voice in the government, on the local scene as well as the national scene. T he white man can learn a lot from the Indian as well, if he will stop and take the time to listen. 
T his is the reason, and if you think the way we do, help us out by reporting and writing; send us your literature if you don't have time to write; or send us ideas and notices if you don't have time for anything else. 
Let's make this magazine one for all Indians in the nation who want to use it. T he editors. 
THE VANQUISHED INDIAN 
Far across the land we wandered Through the forest, then primeval, Over mountains, many rivers ­Many, many moons we wandered. 
To a land called Indian Nation There to live on reservations In a strange land, far from home land Far from where we longed to be. 
Here we struggled to be happy Grew the corn, the squash, the pumpkin Hunted deer and fished the river ­Here, at last, we lived contented. 
Now again we're made to wander In a land so strange and alien Where tall buildings hide sun and sky ­Wander in a cement jungle. 
Learn to live the white man's culture Forget the red man's way of life ­0, Great Spirit, must we wander Another Trail of Tears and strife ( 
3 






TABLE OF COITENTS 
2
Editorial 
Indian Education Has Been Around for a Long, Long Time 
4 
5 Death of the Great White Father 6 Navajo Silversmithing 7 Death of Little Chief 7 Squanto-First Apple 8 Explanation of the Star Quilt 9 Prologue of LOST FACE OF 
CORNHUSK DOLL 10 Cartoons by Robert Freeman 12 Interview with Tonto 15 Book Review -'Tortured Americans' 16 Wigwam Evenings -Second Evening 18 Indian Children Poetry Contest 19 Washington Commentary 19 Rough Rock 
ABOUT THE COVER 

Ida Ryan, a Turtle Mountain Chippewa 
from Belcourt, North Dakota, is the artist for this month's cover. This co­ver will also appear on the jacket of 
the book, LOST FACE OF THE CORN­HUSK DOLL: Mrs. Ryan is a teacher at Hayward Union School District, Hayward, California. 

Footsteps to Manhood 

Oh, Great Spirit, Make hands sure in forming my first bow from ash Make fingers steady in shaping my first arrowhead Make my arm strong and arrow true when killing my first rabbit 
These I give to my father 
Keep my moccasin silent and my eyes awake I grow, slowly, in his shadow Before I am a man. 



Indian Education Has Been Around For A 
Long, Long Time 
The Kennedy Report of the Special 
Subcommittee on Indian Education 
shocked and amazed many people. How, 
they said, could such conditions exist in 
America, the land of the free and the 
home of the braves (ha, ha)? 

But the facts are that the conditions de­
scribed and documented in the Kennedy 
Report -inadequate housing, brutality 
on the part of the teachers and admini­
strators, poor food and diets -have been 
around for a long time, and have been 
condemned many times during the White 
man's history of America. 

The missionaries and the teachers have 
come in time and again, trying to "civ­
ilize the savages" or some such goal, and 
done as they pleased, only to be revealed 
as callous and underhanded ·and cruel by 
some do-gooder liberal whites from the 
East. 

The Jesuits were the first to start 
boarding schools in U.S. waters. They 
started one in Cuba in 1568. It seems 
they wanted some heathens to convert, 
but couldn't find any in Cuba; they had 
all been killed off, or had died of disease. 
So they imported Florida Indians to 
"educate." 

They had at their disposal, however, a model for education from Mexico. The Spanish who conquered the native popu­lations south of the border had institu­tions and colleges of higher education in the early l S00's. These colleges-were not of the boarding type purely, so it re­mained for the Jesuits to sharpen their educational methods in Cuba, and to re­fine them in the missions of California. 
By the time the Jesuits got to Cali­fornia, they had the system down pat. In­stead of letting the Indian children re­main at home, they decided the thing to do was take the whole family and convert it as a unit. Unfortunately, the members of the families kept running away, and they had to send the soldiers out to round them up occasionally, and to beat them for having run away from such good masters. 
:\!most unnoticed, Eleazar Wheelock and some other good-hearted souls started Dartmouth College in the late l60(fs. Their goals were in line with 
those of theJesuits and .Franciscans of the 
Spanish period in the Southeast and 
Southwest -converting the heathen 
savage to a white man. Wheelock and the 
other Protestant looked on Indians as do 
the Federal school teachers and admini­
strators of today; Indians were empty 
cultural vessels, having no original 
thoughts of their own, no respectable cul­
ture, and therefore only worthy of being 
subjected to a process of cultural change 
to conform to the European code of the 
White Man "for their own good." 

Wheelock formulated a theory of 
Indian education which unfortunately 
holds the imagination of Federal bureau­
crats to this day. His theory was that the 
only way to educate and "civilize" the 
Indian child was to remove him from the 
influence of home and family, to wash 
out the "savage habits of tribalism" form 
the child's mind. What was especially 
galling to Wheelock was the Indian 
philosophy of sharing, and being helpful 
to all the people around. The spirit of in­
dividual competition so sacred in 
Republican circles today had caught on 
like wildfire· in Europe, and this so-called 
philosophy became the order of the day. 
It still endures today; some people think 
that the competitive spirit is part of the 
Constitution. 

Wheelock's theories slowly molded 
and formulated the minds of a generation 
of missionaries to the Indians. At a time 
when Indians were essential to the sur­
vival of the new Republic, there was a 
spirit approaching mutual respect be­
tween missionary and frontier Indian. 
The Protestant missionaries went among 
the Five Civilized Tribes and spread the 
word of Protestant Capitalism. Unfor­
tunately, they said very little about Prot­
estant racism, or Protestant bigotry, 
or Protestant ethnocentrism. So when 
the Federal bureaucrats came in the 
tracks of the missionaries, with their 
policies of westward expansion and 
Manifest Destiny, the tribes which had 
accepted the spirit of brotherhood from 
the missionaries were ill-prepared to 
deal with the double-talking Federal 
people. 

The Cherokees had established an al­most complete system of schools in Cherokee country -the corner of North Carolina, Tennessee, Kentucky, and Georgia -which they had established as the Cherokee Republic during the early 1800's. In just over 20 years they had be­come 90% literate; they had established courts, schools, tax systems, roads, farm­ing, and were considerably more "ad­vanced" along Western culture lines than were their white frontier neighbors. 


"'" vo1cE OUGH
1


ROCK 
Is it Good or Bad: 

By Will~rd f-!arris 
· beginnings m 1966, Rough 

•~~e~on tration Sc?ool (RRDS) on 
• ·aJ· 0 reservat10n has been 
a, . d 
· d re-evaluated, praise , and ap­
, . d
d b • anthropologists, e ucators, ~ ihe Bureau of Indian Affairs JJO ;nd numerous visitors including 
· d h 
1 tor , ·ongressmen, an ot ers.

l'h: report whi~h come out of the I ha e invariably reflected the bia of the people doing the
ral
L • • 
. Thi 1s a continual problem .ir her , and one wonders if some people doing "research" on RRDS 
had re earch in mind, or just a political point. 
ta e in point is an anthropologist the University of Chicago. in1hropologist and his assistant gave hool a very bad rating. They were 

idden 10 return to the school. 
pon e, two things happened: (1) f anthropologists, doctors and , er· did their own evaluation of the , and (2) the school board a I am of prominent Navajos to chool from a Navajo per­
. 

Ille fir t of these reports found that the 'hicago had, through living in dorm with the Navajo students and , acquired what they called ho k. ' The rest of their paper d to defending this thesis, and 
how culture shock affected the of the first team. 
h ck is a familiar phenom­a~d ha been known for some time. r filer ays that Marco Polo uffered from it when he visited 

hock is "a form of psycholog­lrauma,, according to the second 
· I1 · 
. 1 caused by reaction to strong 
i al t. 1· t· 
imu i o crosscultural 
n d . 
. an I usually accompanied
'aol nt . d. . . 
m iscnmmate rejection of 
1n that · · 
is part .of that other . e pie new to diplomatic work 
ull r fro . Wh 
.m it. en the actions 1 to the world by are · anged -when a shake of the 
m an ' T " •
° instead of "yes " kt_ on ~he shoulder is an insult In 1 t '
I pa . n ° someone's eyes di­
an 1n ult h 
. -t en people don't 
\\ lo act It · · 
· · eems as if everything . wrong, and sometimes they
1
' rom th 
p. e world and won't eat 

tordin to th . 
e writers of the second 



Child . ..a.nd Teacher both learn together from 
report, Robert Bergman, Joe Muskrat, Sol Tax, Oswald Werner, Garry Witherspoon -this is what hap­ened to the team from Chicago. The·y lived in the dorm, where the dorm aides don't discourage the speaking of Navajo, and according to Bergman, et al., they became disoriented, were barred from the school because they gave an almost com­pletely negative report. 
In contrast to what they found, a team of Navajos who subsequently came in found that the school was a tremendous success! This study came at the request of the school board, which sought a medium in which the "real" issues could be investigated m a "down-to-earth" manner to clear up much of the " mishmash" imposed by researchers. 
The Navajo research team was di­rected to make the evaluation in Navajo, and to relay their findings on the level of Navajo concern. The fact that the re­searchers were Navajo would help some of the other Navajos accept the idea of Navajo-controlled schools. 
The committee, after consulting with the school board, decided to direct their inquiry toward "ascertaining what type of education the Navajos desire for their children, to what extent Indian involve­ment should be included, and how Navajos want their schools to be pro­grammed and operated." 
Their conclusions were based on the results of a team effort, as opposed to the results of a single, or a pair of, re­searchers, who may still not have a thorough notion of the questions that 
need to be asked. 

a parent about Navaio uses for local plants ... 
Their research was gathered by having other Navajos rate the children as to how happy they were in various areas, how much they were learning there, and how much interest they had in each. 
They found that the children were very ~appy in school. Not surprisingly, they found that the children were happiest on the playground, but the classroom was not far behind; the playground got 96 per cent (out of a possible 100), and the class­room got 94 per cent. This finding was in direct contrast to what the Chicago re­searchers found, and is not what other observers of Indian schools have found. In general, children are not happy in the schools, and many don t even pay at­tention to the teachers. 
Actual learning was rated as "good" in the classroom, "average" in the dorms and the kitchen, and "excellent" in the playground. The overall evaluation of the learning process was ' good." 
The children's interest in the class­ro?ms was found not to be very high ­only "good," or 80 points out of 100 ­while the interest in the playground was rated "excellent," 93 percent. 
The most effective teachers were found to be the classroom teachers; they were rated as "excellent" with 94 percent. The least effective teachers were the dorm aides, which Harkins and Woods call "the lost souls of the Indian educa­tion system. They bring with them the dormitory culture of their youth, which often cruelly controlled children and their affiliation with Navajo language and cul­ture." . . . They are (except for the 
(continued page 17) 



INDJA N i1
vo~ 



THE DEATH OF THE GREAT WHITE FATHER 
We drove up and over a mountain to 
reach the cabin on the other side. Some of 
the people were already there. We were 
going to plan the moves the Pit River 
Indians would make to take back some of 
their ancestral lands, lands which were 
taken illegally -without treaty and 
without payment -by the federal 
government and the state of California. 
The people had been waiting since Cali­
fornia became a state for some justice 
from the state government and the federal 
government. They are still waiting. The 
federal government through the Indian 
Claims Commission is try ing to force 
them to accept payment of 20 cents an 
acre for their lands. The · said " Hell no, 
we won't take it." This made no dif­
ference to the feds; so the people met. 

"The old people have been fighting in the way they know how for years to hold onto their lands, but what to do from now on depends on those who are educated, because there are limitations that the old ones have, and that's wh ·we are meeting here, " he said. 
"The tribe has never acc;epted any kind of payment, maintained a clear record, never sold out their Indian heritage. If you were to take a paper bag and blow it up and write $29.1 million on it, then the Indian agrees and accepts the conditions, when he gets the bag there is nothing in it, then this is comparable to the California Land Claims Case. " 
"The first section of Public Law 9507 permits the Secretary of the Interior to make up a roll for California Indians; the second section provides for offsets on the payment of the money. Section One does not say what degree of blood is required -this is up to the discretion of the Secre­tary of Interior; they can enroll anyone they want to ." 
"We were talking about Custer, and we were talking about Chivington, and we were talking about all those anti­1ndian generals. Then I said 'Well, they weren't all bad. I'd like to tell you a little story about the goverment in general and its attitude with the Indians to begin with, and what the attitude of the govern­ment is today."' 
"And I said, 'It's come a long way ­there's been several changes. To begin with my people on my father's side were from the East, in Minnesota country, and he used to tell me this story about how the trappers and the hunters and the van­guard, you know, of the settlers came into his country.," 
"Well the scouts (later they turned out to be scouts) . . . these guys who went out and lived with the Indians, you know, to begin with and trapped and, us . . . actually what they were doing, they were first mapping out the country, you know and they were finding out about how the Indians lived and where their weak spots were . . . Actually what they did as history proved out later on, what they said was 'Well, we want to be your brother, we want to live in peace with the Indians, we want to enjoy all the good things of the earth and we want to help you and live with your ways of worship with the Great Spirit ... and we want to be your brother. We'll abandon our European culture, we came to the new country and we found you here and we respect your rights and we'd like to be your brother. "' 
"So the Indians just said, 'All right."' 
" So the story about this -I forget what the heck that guy's name was, the scout that went out in the country (he later became a scout) -but anyway, he was a trapper then. So he cut his wrists, you know, blood, the custom was. The Indian chief's son, he cut his wrists, they put their bloods together and said, 'All right from now on we're blood brothers. We'll protect one another and we'll all be for one-people and we'll be this and we'll be that and you'll be my brother and I'll always be your brother. We're gonna live in peace." ' 
"So the Indian accepted it and said, 'All right. "' 
" And any time the government came out with a treaty requiring certain land, wanting certain land, the Indian said, 'All right , my brother needs a piece of land fine. We got lots of land here. We'll divide up and this and that. Everything was fine. My blood brother says it's all right so fine , you be my blood brother too( '" 
"So the Indian he always pulled back and let the settlers come in and, . . . but the thing is, this brotherhood business was fine, you know, well it was actually going one way . Pretty soon the settlers came in and they began to build their forts they began to occupy the land, they began to outfit their forts with all the military provisions, and militarily they secured the land , you know , by force and military power. They pretty soon, well, the brotherhood kinda come to an end there a little bit and the treaties began to be broken and pretty soon they ended up in a little warfare, you know, and the brotherships ... fighting brother against brother, and the white man and the Indian, and, well they expanded on.,, 
"Well they say in those t . 
· · · h reat1e
prov1s1ons in t e treaties it .. 
. 1·k h. I ' \\a·at
JUSt 1 e t 1s cause I was tellin ' 
the Bureau wants you to s· g a 
. . B •gn no
termination. ut it was alwa.. ' of the Indian just what the)· )I r_equ1 
. . cont 
the history books 1s that each t 
. h real\d
~as ma e wtt_ . the Indian ther 
a_ whays_ a p~o_v1s1on and an agreem 
e1t er in writing or verbal!)· th· 
II . , dt tf
I d. 
n tan was rea y_s1_nc~re in hi . beli f he wanted to be f atthf ul and ,. k 
. , ou n 
!tve at peace, not to disturb hi·. 
. d . \t
the treaties an one thing ancl .
c1not 
that he would hand in all hi . ~un show by an act that he wa go· abandon this violence and one thi~n another and that he was going to Ii\ peace and depend on the governme go ahead and live up to their end 0~t bargain without any violence.. 0 t lived fine, they lived real happ awhile, you know, government prO\t 
•him with beef and different thing maybe built him a government hou one thing and another and, well. he, happy for a while." 
"Then pretty soon the white forgot the treaties and a lot of 11 there'd be trouble spring up b\' people that come in, you know. seekers or whatever. Well, they'd m kind of a big alarm 'Well here com troops. ' Well, the troops like Chi\'in and like Custer, they had a port be the Indian was disarmed. Becau·e he, living according to the treaty that he, ... had handed in all his gun and well, in order to prove to the tr makers and the government that he ' faithful in his desires to be at peal he was faithful to the agreement oft treaty and, handed in all his gun·. and then when violence broke out he ' defenseless. " 
"Well they come in and rode right him and massacred him and run all o, sent him back into the wood· and thing and another. T hey they ca n~~0 make other treaties the same way. 
"They went through all the e of procedures -in other word became a routine like. They pretl\ when they had acquired mo t all land, and had established all the 1~' sites and occupied all the land e_a ·t _ 0 Mississippi then the nation said. \ 
, F mn 
we can't be brothers no more. ro on I'll be your White Father, I'll be' Great White Father. You be the '' 
'II i"e ' 
you be like children and we g . reservation, we'll provide these ~~,1° you and one thing and another. e 
(continued on page 17 ) 


Navajo Silversmithing 
. ·t of Navajo silversmithing has 

1111' ,ll . '\ ·1 h . cl
C 

. ,, 010 ng the .v oors, w o in ays ,ot " I k 
pa ·t \,,ere experth mNeta :-vor 'erhs. -· turn taught t e avaJOS, w o ' in cl h ·1 . h
pted and adapte t e_ art untl lt as h, 1it modern perfection. ec·aid that about 1830 Atsicli Sani 
1 
,1 niith ), medicin~ man, l~arnecl fro m 
1
\ll":ican to work iron. His four sons llher acquired the craft from him. 
\\leen l 64-1868, ~vhile the Navajos interned at Fort Summer, they used ,llld copper to make crude jewelry. 
r mall amounts of silver they pos­1 ·d h< d been acquired from the Mexi­
On returning to their homeland, \\l•,er, they began to work silver, and nd it the most satisfying metal for 
, eln·. I er \\'a fir t obtained from American 
10 . but when the government forbade 11 u·e in 1890, the Navajos gladly 
pted ~lexican money, which was n and easier to work. Ih \' early learned to engrave designs 
inch ne and to pour melted silver 
the channels. Much jewelry was dr like that, and the technique is still !ult1r today. Ihe fir t Navajo to set turquoise in n i· upposed to have been Atsicli 
u1 (Cg;ly Smith), when in 1880 he rle ,1 turquoise-set ring. In the next ten r thi developed into popularity, 111 today very few plain pieces are rt· The use of garnets and other 1t· • and even colored glass and 
lon ·hell, followed, but these are no 
n nu cl. 
Ih Ilopi and Zunis traded turquoise d h II with the Navajos for silver. · ali Chon finally set up~ shop at Zuni, 
re the e Puebloans learned the art r m him. They have since developed 1 O\\' n t ·le with great success. Die a11 cl tamps to mark silver in or­·ntal de igns were adapted from 
• ~ d by the Mexicans in stamping 11 aLh rwork. By 189S such dies r rnmmonly used. Thev were manu­
ur d by th N . ,
• , e ·ava1os by filing the ends 
p 1 t of crap iron. As finer files were Ill d 
· more elaborate and attractive 

•_'n. \\'e re made. 
111111 0 
. po sibilities for the sale of ' Jo I \,·elr ·
It "., (' ) to non-Indians, the Freel ,_ompany in 1899 ordered silver 
Up Ill q · 

tr· . uanttty to be sold on Santa <1111 • and h 
1 F < . at t eir shops in the011 · or this purpose they provided 
silver and shaped and polished turquoise sets. These were supplied to the trading posts, which paid local silversmiths by the ounce for the finished work. White purchasers preferred a lighter weight of silver than that formerly used by the Navajos for their own jewelry. Other companies fo llowed suit in ordering wholesales . 
Hy the mid-l 920's this commercializa­tion had produced an enormous demand, but had cheapened the product, which by now consisted mainly of lightweight silver stamped with arrows and swastikas, the white man's idea of typical Indian design and set with a few small turquoises. Such inexpensive jewelry was popular as souvenirs. At least one firm had begun to mass produce Indian style jewelry made by machinery. Sometimes the machines were operated by Indians, which allowed the manufacturers to label their product " Indian-made." The Arts and Crafts Board, established within the Department of Interior in W ;1shington, D .C., endeavors to stop wuch imitations. 
In 1938 the Indian Arts and Crafts Board inaugurated the use of a stamp to be used on Indian-made jewelry for identifi­cation. This stamp is no longer used, but many top silversmiths have a stamp of their own, either with their initials or a de­sign, which is applied on the back of the piece of jewelry and serves as a mark of quality and individuality. All Navajo silver today is guaranteed Sterling. 
Many of the articles made by the earlier silversmiths are still popular. Belts with large or small conchas follow the original design for the most part, although some are now adapted to modern styles and de­mands. Pins, bracelets, rings, and belt buckles and bola ties are the most generally made, and may be purchased in all sizes, shapes and designs. Cast work is still much in demand. 
A modern form of silver-working is the overlay in which two sheets of silver, one pierced with a more or less elaborate de­sign, are sweated together. The lower layer is sometimes darkened to emphasize the design. 
Something new in the art is table silver: 
knives, forks, and teaspoons, salad forks, 
and slender silver goblets. The utensils are 
sometimes set with turquoise. 
Today, Navajo silver, while it re­
flects the influence of the old designs, 
has a modern appeal due to excellent crafts­
ship and carefully-chosen sets. The most 
favored are turquoise and coral, sometimes 
used together. Shell also is used in interest­
ing ways. Silver is heavier, and the de­
signs are pleasing. The purchaser of 
authentic Navajo silverwork today has ac­
quired something worth keeping, as valu­
able in its own right as a diamond ring. 
7 


DEATH OF LITTLE CHIEF 

It was that time of the year, \\'hen the leaves on the trees changed their rnlor from green to gold, before leaving on their journey to\,·ard earth. 
A little Indian boy lay in his mother·s arms and watched as the leaves floated laz ily toward the ground. He looked up at his beautiful young mother. She looked clown at him and smiled. He smiled back. 
He knew his father was hunting and would soon be home. Perhaps he \rnuld pick some nuts and berries, and tonight as the stars came out, they would Cea~ them. :\laybe his father would laugh and call him " Little Chief", as he so often did . 
The sun was warm and Little Chief was sort of sleepy. He slowly closed his eyes, but before sleep could completely overtake him, Little Chief thought he heard the pounding hooves of a running horse in the distance. ~laybe it was father corning home, he thought, and he smiled i nd fell asleep. 
Little Chief could feel his mother's arms tighten around him. He looked up; it was not his father, but a man in a blue uniform. The man had hair all over his face, and had large yellow teeth. He was smiling. Little Chief also saw the sword in the soldier's hand. Little Chief did not understand. He saw the sword coming. He heard and felt it hit him. He wondered why, and then he went to sleep again. This time the sleep would be forever. Little Chief was dead. 
Little Chief would never be a leader a 

hunter, a father, or a Chief. Like m~st 
Indians, he never had a chance. Little 
Chief will forever ask the question, 
WHY ? 

HORSEFEATHERS 
MILITANT MORSELS: After the recent Bureau bust of 24 Al~l and NIYC activists in Washington, D.C., these items were overheard: " vVell," said Al~l 's Russell :\leans, "I guess now they can call us the D.C. Dirty Two Dozen." ...Said a veteran of Alcatraz and the statue-painting in New York at a late­night meeting with Louis Hruce: "There's more room here in the ( :om­missioner's office than in my entire house." ...Seneca Laura vVhittstock one of Washington's tiniest and mos~ popular tribespeople, had to chuckle when she discovered that her arresting police officer was named none other than George Washington. 







The First Apple Indian 


SQUANTO 
By RudyJay Casazza 

When that first wave of immigrants hit 
the east coast and survived the winter of 
1620, they gave thanks to their God 
using the Jndian custom of giving thanks 
to the Great Spirit. All their knowledge 
of the "New World," and their very 
lives, they owed to the "instrument of 
God," Squanto. 
Born into the Pawtuxet tribe of Cape Cod, Squanto was educated in the cul­ture of his tribe. In the year 160.S, as a young brave defending his land, he was captured by George Weymouth, an English explorer. Although not a slave, he remained a captive for several years. While in captivity, he was educated in the ways of the English of that day. As a ward of a wealthy nobleman, he witnessed many royal events, and was once presented to Queen Elizabeth I. No matter how educated he was, he was a displaced person in a foreign society. He yearned for his own land. In 1614 he was able to win his way back to the New World aboard a ship commanded by Capt. John Smith. Squanto left the expedition and rejoined his tribe. 
During the same year, he and 27 other Pawtuxet braves were lured aboard the English slave ship of Capt. John Hunt. Placed in chains, the Indians were taken to Malaga, Spain, where they were sold into slavery. While aboard ship, the Captain realized who Squanto was and invited him to join the crew. To his credit, Squanto chose to remain in cap­tivity with his fellow Pawtuxet. 
Squanto was purchased by a Spanish monk who abhorred slavery. The Protes­tant-English-educated Indian was now re-educated into the customs of Catholic Spain, and was baptized a Roman Catholic. While in Spain, he dined with the explorers of the day. He eventually returned to England, where he renewed his friendship with Sir Ferdinando Gorges, Governor of Plymouth (England). In 1619, he was put aboard an English ship bound for 'ew Found­land. When he reached his native village, he met with the silence of desolation. His ancestral village stood in ruins, his people wiped out by a plague which had swept the area a few years earlier. He was the sole Pawtuxet. 
Homeless and alone, he went to live among the powerful W ampanoags, and was adopted by the great chief Massasoit. A year later, European immigrants, known as Pilgrims, came ashore and established the first white settlement in New England. A Nauset runner on the way to the council fires of Massasoit first told of the Mayflower. Massasoit is re­ported to have replied: "Let them live in peace, they will live in peace, they will die by themselves." It was November, 1620, and winter would soon be upon the immigrants. 
Squanto learned of the settlement from 
the great chief. The land they settled 
upon was his tribal lands. They were 
English, he knew English customs well; 
he pleaded to go to them, and was 
allowed to do so. Finding the English in 
great need of assistance, and unable to 
defend themselves, he pleaded their case 
before Massasoit, and established what is 
perhaps the first peace treaty between the 
Indian and the whiteman. The peace 
lasted until the Indian was no longer 
needed. 

Under the guise of peace, the infant 
settlement grew and nourished an army. Squanto had never realized the real intent of the immigrant band of Pilgrims. Within two years he not only arranged a peace treaty, but had taught the English band the ways of ew World farming, he taught them to plant corn and to fertilize the soil for a good crop. It was he who pointed out the edible fruits and berries., 
Had he followed the advse of Massasoit, the Pilgrims would have surely died that winter. Not only did Squanto adopt the new religion of the immigrants, but he de­voted himself to their cause, selecting to live am_ong them instead of with his adopted people. He adopted their customs, and abandoned his own. 
The Indians of Cape Cod captured Squanto. He was tried and sentenced to death as a traitor. Before the sentence could be executed, Squanto was rescued by his Pilgrim friend ~liles Standish. In the winter of 1662, Squanto, the First American Apple, fell ill with pneumonia and died alone in the snow near the whiteman. 



INDIAN 
DRAFT RE I 
the topic of a special publi Native American Free L'ni Box H, Yelm, Wah. 9 59 "Winning the Peace." th (suggested donation i 2. pre-induction and requests 
for con cient1ou classification, document supportive contemporary ments from several Indian ,· II 

9 


CITIES ON TRIBAL 

. f. ~ 1 a landmark decision, a ruling 
J) ~anded down in New Mexico 
J: bt:en that the Colonias de Santa Fe et·lartng ·ty'' on Tesuque Pueblo land d ert ci_n under Tesuque jurisdiction
1 

11 rernha that of the state. Amid the
0

rt a . . d 
I . outhwest water cns1s an
1 

niin~ ~~ought, Indian leaders hailed rrtn .. 0 and its precedent-value for 
dec1 10 . . N 
e ·'rniracle cities b1oommg m ew he~ rizona deserts such as the \le:ico-ial Cochiti City. The presiding 
niro er . . f .
•ted a "turquoise curtain o m1s­

d e c1 .
nding" which separates South­

nder ta . . . 
_Indians from authenticJust1ce. 
ATIO NAL INDIAN ACTI­~• TS TO MEET -One o~ the · n' largest interstate and mter-
JIIO . . 11·
rvation Indian activist a 1ances ­ill ho t the first national confere~ce ?f I0dian activists in Cleveland, Oh10, m 1e ~larch or early April of next year. et. nt events within the Indian Bureau 
,e erved a a unifying catalyst among tivi t groups who hitherto have u ued eparate and sometimes con­Oil tin goals. The quality and repre­nt tion of federal leadership nation­id will almost certainly be the first 
R -The new national Alliance for De\'elopment and Indian Rights D:\IR) has been formed in Rapid it\', .0., to assist Indian employes ho encounter problems on their jobs. fhe brainchild of two experienced r anizations -the Working Indians .i,il ociation (WICA) and \. fERI D, Inc. -the new alliance _ill . a i t where problems have 1 nmination arise anywhere in the na11on. The two parent organizations ' ama ed considerable technical nowled e concerning federal pro­edur~ per onnel regulations, and are 
nenced in furnishing legal as­


\\'Q ! 

· Mass. (AIPA) -"Share our 
rrow'' d
ha h . rea _a message from the . ti oke Tnbe here which set a 
I . ' 
-~-in nearby Kent, Conn., on Oct. 9 h\\ . 1~h wa denied permission by local ?ru,e to hold a powwow cere­
0 n1e or d d' ' 
nd \\'a an es, 1splay Indian goods, ntative. over een by a state repre-
II 
LAGUNA PUEBLO, one of New Mexico's 19 adobe and sandstone historic pueblo villages, calls its own suburbs which dot major highway arterials such names as Philadelphia, Boston and New York. Uranium discovered and mined in Laguna country provides the puebloans an opportunity to construct new dwellings -and most are choosing the traditional adobe and sandstone, outside of which invariably appear conical ovens for the baking of bread. 
IN BROOKLYN on Sept. 25 New York City Deputy Mayor Timothy W. Costello dedicated space provided by the city for the first American Indian service center set up on the Eastern Seaboard. Uniquely in urban experience, all the services, facilities and space in the build­ing on 4201 Fourth Ave. at 42nd St. will be made available to all Indian organiza­tions and interested individuals. 
A PETITION has been submitted by the National Indian Youth Council to the Federal Communications Commission to deny broadcast license renewal to Al­buquerque station KGGN-TV on several grounds. KGGN gives almost no coverage to the 78,000 Indians in its viewing area, says NIYC; of the station's 87 employes, none are Indians; the station embodies a "lack of involvement" with the two-state Indian community; and it telecasts stereotyped news of the region's Indians, their lives, and in particular their religious ceremonials, charges NIYC. KGGN has a month to reply to the FCC. 
A BURIAL SITE approximately 5,000 years old has been discovered in Clay County in northern Mississippi. At first lawmen were suspicious that skeletal remains found near Starkville, Miss., indicated foul play, but a Mississippi State professor laid their fears to rest. The site is an ascending knoll soaring above nearby rivers. Study indicates the age-old community had an average lifespan of 30 years, engaged in trading with nearby tribes, and occupied the location continuuously for perhaps four millenia. 
HANAY GEIOGAMAH, Oklahoma playwright, says he is interested in run­ning for the position of intertribal chair­man of the Five Spaced Out Tribes of Oklahoma. That tribal association reportedly is negotiating with the Five Sophisticated Tribes and the Five Para­lyzed Tribes in neighboring counties. 
CHINLE, Ariz. (AIPA) -The Navajo Curriculum Center at the Rough Rock Demonstrat.ion School here has completed a native publication entitled " Navajo History," an English transla­tion of many interviews with tribal elders and medicine men. 
The book, complete with drawings and photographs, includes accounts of the various tribal underworlds, the emergence of the Navajo People, origin of Navajo clans, and the story of Changing Woman, told for the first time from a tribal viewpoint, 
Volume I is available in hardcover for $12 and in paperback for $6 from Navajo 
Curriculum  Center,  Rough  Rock  
Demonstration School,  Chinle,  Ariz.  
86503.  

Explanation of the Star Quilt 

The mythology as well as the tradi­tions of North American Indian tribes shows a religious observance of the stars and a reverence for all the heavenly bodies. The Milky Way is called the "Pathway of Departed Souls. " After death it is believed, by many American Indians, that the spirit of the deceased passes in this pathway to the Southern Star, the abiding place of the dead. It is thought that to the stars the Great Spirit gave the power to watch over mortals on earth and to impart to them spiritual blessings. The Star Quilt is given today as a token of this belief. 
It is customary at the death of a rela­tive to enhance his glory and memorialize his name. The stricken family of the Siouxan, Gros Ventre and numerous other tribes had little pride in ownership of goods, but much pride in honorship ­by giving of materials to relatives and very close friends who came to help them bury their loved ones. Things are less important than people -property always flows back to those who let it flow freely forth and the grateful recipients praise the donor's name before other people as having done well. 
The traditional memorial service held on the first anniversary of the death of a loved one, and the presentation of star quilts to those who especially kind to the .deceased, is still widely practiced. 
**** 





Prologue 

to ORNHUS K DOLL by 
EVERETT PARKER (TWO ARROWS) and OLEDOSKA 
Before the white man came, Indians passed their traditions to the children orally. This was our way of education 
The white man changed all that -he thought. It is believed by many, including officials of the federal government who deal with Indians, that Indian traditions are dying out, or have died out already, having been replaced by the tradi ditions of the white man. 
Cornhusk Doll is living proof of the falseness of this belief. While Indians might have learned the techniques of the white man, he is slow to adopt the white man's culture and his religion. Indian legends -one way of preserving Indian culture the way it was before 1492 -are still around. They are still passed from father to son, from grandmother to granddaughter, in many places and many times. People are still becoming apprentices to learn these themselves so the can be passed on forever. 
Everett Parker is a Seneca, and a follower of the religion of Handsome Lake, as well as being a Pine Tree chief. He is old now, but he was an outstanding athlete in his youth. He knows the legend of the Cornhusk Doll, and has set it down. The prologue follows, the part where the drum starts beating to set the rhythm for the story. 
Next month we will follow with the first chapter. The book will be on sale shortly, and can be ordered from Indian Voice. 
Way back when the .Ireokwa or Five Nations were a mighty people their domain far-extending, certain of their wise men would journey from village to village during the time of Great Sleep, which is Winter, carrying Beaverskin Mystery Bundles upon their backs. Everywhere were they welcomed, for their words were as flaming firebrands, keeping bright the fire of Seneca glory and tradition, fusing into one their hearts. 
There in dim lit Birch Bark Lodges, built in the clearings of vast forests, would these wise men draw from their Mystery Bundles incredible objects of much Grenda. To hand might come a notched tomahawk, a husk maskette, a turtle's legging ... even a dead beetle ... anything that hinted of a telling. Then while Wolves howled to cold Moon­Grandmother, about such objects would these wanderers weave for their eager lis­teners work-wampum of richness and life; words that breathed of weird Flying Heads, . droll Ghostly-Legs, powerful Stone Giants, grotesque Little People; of Good Spirits and Evil Monsters; of splendid Warriors and· handsome dark­eyed Maidens; . of feats of strength, courage, magic .or great cunning; of Earth-Mother's beauty and Sun's glory. 
Several nights' sitting did many ·,)f these tales take. And these men were known to the Only People as "those­with-eyes-far-seeing," and were called by them Hageotahs or Story Tellers. Thus were the ways of the Ong-weh-oh-weh, who had no written language, kept strong in their memory. 
Today but few lreokwa (Iroquois) Story Tellers remain. Much of their Earth-Mother tradition has gone with those Ancient Ones to Indian Heaven. 
Soon will the early ways become wi out, as their descendants are irre i tibll drawn into the vortex of a diffe nl living. Therefore, Oh Listener , , ·bile there is yet time, let us visit one of th tellings. Let us turn our eyes inward and through the magic of Talking Lea enter a Longhouse of the Ho-de-nau­ne, the People of the Birch Bark Lod . 
It is so. Now out of age-risen ma appears a lithe and sinewy figure ~and­ing tall in Moose-hide breech, frm. leggings and moccasins. He is a P: Tree Chief which means he has ear his title and his name is Dau-gah-non­gae. Up,on that deep chest sways a n ~ lace of Bear claws wrested from · Gwiah i~ f~erce combat. St:aight t:~ black hair 1s crested by a silver-str~ Roach headdress. His face, intric~l bronzed and thin-lipped; eyes pierc! and Hawk-like capable of penetrat 
,AN vote£ 
I Olr 
. ces yet we were to learn that 

d1stan ' d f"ll . h ,
e,11 eyes coul i wit a seer s e·. . arne earth opaque and deep as a ~, _11c1rn, pit remote and endless as 
rnless ,
11\ elf. High the ~h_eekbones and fore­1n1e 1 . tting sensitive nose, a strong ed. a JUd head on an Oak-like neck.
bone 

o~-The right hand palm outward 
\\ hoe1. . . d d 
. . nd hip sign is raise towar_ us. 
1 1
: e t ly the lips move and a typically l hbera ea l voice exclaims, "Dahdjoh, 
neca na 
,.. t 1~r · h ow do we find ourselves · '.0 · a Longhouse of the Great 
. rrina C 
· with the aroma of roasted orn 
111ue, H b . . 
·... \'eni on and er s . 1mgenng. women are putting away
l t ,·,,·a 
,den bowls and spoons, bark plates, her utensils of the meal upon the 

J Ol . h
f the cleeping bunks a1ong wit er of the narrow hall. M~anwhi_le their and children gather m a circle or them elves on bunks near the Seneca f the Western Entrance, where
f ire f. . h
nd · a mufned igure wit a strange ndle at his feet. Abruptly the hum of men' guttural voices, blending with h "' men's silvery tones is hushed. pper bodies freez~ into . statues, and hquid brown eyes widen slightly at our 
pproa h. ll.1u htily our guide leads us toward 1 lone figure. We pass beneath cross ,k laden with huge slabs of dried meat, nl h of Medicine Herbs, chunks of 
P rnpkin braids of seed Corn. Above \'O nd, all about the loft, are gri­\, ooden Masks painted black attered among Sacred Medi­and other equipment for the . Hanging from the uprights, near for possible danger, are weapons; heavy oak warclubs, hickory bows and quivers of 
keen-edged tomahawks, stone knives, and cruel spears. underneath the bunks we r ttle , tom toms flutes snow and lacrosse sticks. Robes ~f Bear or Deer hide are drawn in m of many bunks. No windows are the only light being from the fires tar sparkling smok-holes of 

attitude of watchful waiting 
about us. White teeth flash friendship. Slender hands to it upon. We have a place 
· 
ircle of listeners about the r who stands alone in medi­:e the Lodge Fire, enfolded in 
k1n robe. 
Id · 
man is Hageotah with a
d ' 
eame and thoughtful with m of age. Daugahnongae whispers to us that the tale teller has heard the Voices of the Ancients in the Winds; that he has held council in Dreams with the Sacred Medicine Masks; and that he has learned from Nature many woods, streams and Animal secrets, and that he can even go inside an lreokwa mind and bring out all thoughts no matter now deep. 

Behold, as he smokes that of the Tobacco People, how he slowly crumbles some of its leaf upon the Lodge Fire while intoning his thanks for safe shelter from the storm's bite. He asks, too, that good attend his telling and wishes no one to take offense at any word of his. 
We hope this tale may take several nights' sitting for Medicine Men find signs of a big storm coming. If so, that is good, for the old man is unable to travel in rough times, and the longer he stays, the more of his good tales do we hear. 
Quietly, as the other fires are extinguished, the women, having completed their chores, also come about to listen. 
All readiness, Hageotah spreads his robe upon the earthen floor. Raising high the Mystery Bundle, he exclaims, "Whatever gift your Tale Teller draws, upon that thing will he speak." 
And we listeners, straining to see what the object may be, politely question, "Hauh-oneh, Now-What?" 
Then the wise man plunged his hand among the gifts to draw forth a diminu­tive Cornhusk Doll, none ever daintier. Hands.ome is she to look upon in her graceful costume of smoke-colored Fawn­skin, beaded in black, red, white and yellow Seneca floral designs. From be­neath her fringed leggings wee yellow moccasins twinkle in the firelight. Her silken head plume is bound by a band of sweet grass from which a sumac-tinted red feather dangles. A pure white sheel necklace clings to her Fawnskin front. In Ill. by Ida Ryan her cheeks re~ts the delicate paint of Dawn, while in her eyes dimple the laughter of happy streams. 
"Once, for a long time," announced Hageotah, "did this O-No-Nyah Ga­Yah-Dah and her kind have no Faces. About a long and dangerous Quest, upon which this brave Doll went to regain Faces for herself and her Doll Tribe, will I now tell you." 
* * * * * * * 

INDIAN VOICE WANTS YOUR ARTICLES AND SHORT STORIES 


,., 

MIND IF WE SHOOT AT A FEW of 'EM~ 
JUST BURY THE TOMAHAWK, DONT Gt.T RIDICULOU!:) 11 
ROBERT FREEMAN 
Yankton Sioux director of the Southern Cali.Ci Indian Art Center on the Ri Reservation; works primarily in pen ink; these cartoons are his first att in that medium. His first book of toons, from which these were tak n available from him at 1697 Curry Drive, San Marcos, California~ 92 



'~••. AND 1HE'( CALL US SUPERSTI TIOU0 

13 


1 

,.. H£RES TI-\E SHIPM£NT OF TR l:.I\TY PAPER you OR!>E.RfD• 
._, PAPERS?,, 

.... 0~ ~Rtlff /! WE GET 
!

ALCATRAZ AND THEY I 
I

GET iHE MAIKLAND. I/ 
Ile i recognized as one of the repre­nt,lli\'e 'ioux painters in traditional clium . Hi satirical cartoons speak 
r them elve . Iii work has been exhibited through­! the nation, and is in many private 

net public collections. He has won 22 · lional Indian Awards in exhibitions. 
. 





,, 
·•-. FIRST THEY C:iO OUT ('UT DOWN A TREf THEN SET IT UP IN rn'E HOUSE AND STRIN(r ElfCT l~IC LIG HTS ALL OVER IT, THEN THEY TELL THEIR KID'.") THATt FAT Oll) MAN IS GOIN(r TO CRAWL j?ow~o THEIR ~TOV£ PIPE AM LEAVf •EM A 
.._.oo -MI NI-BIKE". 

~ ~ 
AN I) THEY SA'( WE t-tAvf WEIRD RELIGIOU.5 
HOttl)Ay S', ,, THEY ACT LIKE A BUNCH OF WILD OKIES 



, o1AN vote£ 
I.NTER VIEW WITH ]A Y SIL VERHEELS, 
Otherwise Known as "Tonto" 
. Voice: In the role that you're lnd•a\u portray a different type of ,,,n. h\ the young "militants" today.
11

I di 111 a · f h
n d ·ou think of the tactics o t e 
al O ) . f ;>
•ii rants and what they stnve or. 

una 1111 · ;>
"' ipprove of their tactics. 

I) \llLI< 

. erheels: There are some 
11 
. and activists. I don't condemn 

11 1nl ' . h' 'f h
lndi,in for doing any_t mg i . e . he· going to accomplish _anyt~mg 11 · not going to _be degradi:1g, if _he re,1on and intelhgenc~ and is not m­

e(! br his immatunty. I support u Ol ·1· I d ' 
em. I' m probably as mSihit~nt. d o_n t ro\C of J ane Fonda. es not omg
1
~ untn· or family any go?d. I{ g,irding Alcatraz, I think that was 
d in li~ht of everything that happened 
~roup and to Indians in general. It's n "ell to draw attention to something, 1 11 111 no way resolved it. I was very u h 111tere ted in Alcatraz when I first rd about it and was led to believe that lnd1111 took it on the premise of a broken 1r 1,. and later on I find this wasn't 
ru It \\'a something else. Those In­1 n \\ ·r representing themselves, but , ,,rr' ·aying they represented all In­
1 n . That wa not true in my way of II ·in~. Indian Voice: Mr. Silverheels, if you d ,our Tonto role playing to do all 
r ,wain, what would you do ? Would u han~ it, or not do it, or what is ur 1 ·elinis about that? Do you resent 
r le into which this casts you as an 

fl( I 
ii · rheels: Yes, I would do it all over 1111 \\"hen I first heard about it I 11·1 know I was being cast for it. My 
1 
1 1ned me to the contract -the 

t· R,iniser and Tonto series. When I rd 
.u the cript, I didn't like it, but I n 1head and did it with the intention inoin it. If I didn't accept it some-
el · · Id h ' 
\\ ou ave done it, and he may 11 have been an Indian. I brought dre up to date. I didn't think I
}
t • II 

ht to portray an authentic In­t" -' 1 t0mpo ite person -I changed ~ thhin Tonto did. I had discus­'' It the h 
1 \\' ~ an w o owneq it, and the
1 
tried to establish the fact that

',,a q I. .
• ua m mtelligence. The fact
1
onto ho .
I rse was Just a little behind 
•011 
Ran ' · 
cl .k _ger s was criticized. This
1
h.1 e immature thinking. The ·1 ing was Lone Ranger Tonto
l\er Th , 
r ,t-· e great horse, Silver, was 
,1~ ion t h k.
0 t e ids, a great animal. 

They couldn't see through this legendary thing. Then you get different writers denouncing Tonto. 
They say they're going to do away with the image of Tonto, and so on. That doesn't bother me. I made the choice of becoming an actor and made my living as an actor and realized that one must sur­vive any endeavor he chooses. If one can't survive, then he is out and will not be in the position to inOuence changes. 
Where were those guys who were doing the writing and protesting, when I was fighting all alone? It is very easy to criticize -hindsight is great. Why didn't they protest to the media and help me? Now, all they do is sit back on their smug asses. The character, Tonto, has made a lot of communication for all In­dians. What I try to do with Tonto is give him dignity -nobility. Since that time, things have changed. It's easier to be an Indian. In 1949, I began the series, but it was on radio since 1934. 
Indian Voice: What is the main dif­ference between you, as a person, and Tonto, as a person? Are you more In­dian, less Indian, more assimilated, less assimilated? Are you more militant or less militant? 
Silverheels: I know that I may be more militant than those that are getting their picture in the paper. Wlien they find out nobody is going to be there to photograph them, they give it up. I'm fully aware of the problems that exist to­day for lndians.i do know the overall situation which affects Indians and why they must live as they do today. 
I was born and raised on the reserva­tion. I'm all for the Indian getting his education and becoming aware of both cultures and using them to perpetuate our traditions, religion, dances. No ­I'm not assimilated -I'm an Indian. I learned all these things. 
My being in business as an actor just didn't happen; I went hungry -I used to be an extra. I had to make them forget about me as an extra. I was making good money doing stunts, good rider ... I was on a horse before I could walk. I paddled a canoe, I won the championship in wrestling, two-year-middle-weight box­ing and wrestling at the same time. I dug ditches, laying concrete for patios and banging out fenders here in the LA area. I slept in a truck, washed dishes for my meals, wore the same clothes week after week. After going through this, I estab­lished a base and then would change things. I had to play an Indian that I didn't want to play. If I had complained, they (Indians) would have not been given consideration for more job offers. I just turned down a good picture with 20th Century Fox -they were projecting In­dians as stupid. 
Indian Voice: What kind of roles are 
you playing today in the movies? W hat 
are you doing besides acting, if anything? 
Silverheels: Things I want to do ­scientist, lawyer, businessman, how the Indian is involved today. I have an In­dian Actor's Workshop, all tribes and economic levels, open to study arts, to de­velop their creativity because they have talent. 
I hope to train Indians in all related crafts, not only for actors who are able to portray Indian roles -that is secondary. First -to develop creativity. I take dropouts who are not able to go on to school. The workshop has been in existence for four years. 
Indian Voice: Is there any increase in the number of Indians actors playing Indians in movies over the past few years, or is it mostly non-Indians who are still playing the role of lnians? What is your feeling about the non-Indian playing the role of Indians? 

Silverheels: Lately, they're a lot of people devulging that they're Indian. Jonathan Winters is 1 / 8 Indian. He didn't make it as an Indian -he made it on his own. He made a contribution of several thousand dollars to the Indian Workshop. He hosted a performance for us at NBC. Glen Ford is part Blackfoot. 

GUESS WHO? 



BOOK REVIEW 
"The Tortured Americans" 
Bob Burnette is an unusual Indian leader, one who has fought against the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) and their policies of robbing Indians for the last 20 years. 
That is unusual in an Indian "leader." The usual complaint one hears from these "leaders" is that they are tied down by the BIA; they have to go along with BIA policies in order to "get something for their people." 
Burnette is one of the people -the "leaders" -who did not go along with this way of thinking. He made a dent in the way things are run at Rosebud in the late S0's as tribal chairman, then left for Washington to become the Executive Director of the National Congress of American Indians (NCAI). 
While he was gone, unfortunately, the situation was reversed. Cato Valandra became tribal chairman, and in the course of a few years indebted the tribe for half a million dollars; stole an elec­tronics plant; sold tribal cattle, horses, hay balers, and so forth; mortgaged the reservation; and cheated many Sioux out of their lands, all with BIA consent and backing. The reservation superintendent during this time was Harold Schunk. (Last month's issue of Indian Voice spelled out th_e way Valandra stole the plant. Only on an Indian reservation is it possible to steal a whole electronics plant -buildings, capital, laborers -lock, stock, and barrel.) 
Burnette documents the way Indians are robbed blind -at the local level ­in his new book The Tortured Americans (Prentice-Hall, $7. 95 ). The book paints an almost unbelievable pic­ture of the ways people on the Rosebud and Cheyenne River reservations, both in South Dakota, are cheated. Tribal chair­men and their thugs deny whole towns the right to vote in tribal elections; they steal Indian land right under the noses of BIA officials, with the consent of the officials; and they generally make them­selves rich. 
Frank Ducheneaux from Cheyenne River made himself rich as tribal chairman there. Cato Valandra from Rosebud did the same thing. Cato is in the runoff for tribal chairman at the moment, and if he wins you can bet there will be another field day, with Cato and his family and his thugs making a bundle once again. 
Hurnette says in his book that he was asked by Cato and company (while Hurnette was NCA I Executive Director) to leave Washington and join forces with them. Instead he joined forces against them, and is known in the Indian world as a courageous fighter for his own people at Rosebud, as well as a fighter for the rights of all Indians. 
He was also in the race for tribal chairman at Rosebud, but lost in the primary to Valandra and the present chairman, Webster Two Hawk. These :wo are in the runoff at the moment. Burnette probably lost votes because he was associated, at least in the minds of some of the voters, with Lehman (Lee) Brightman from Berkeley, a former truck driver turned militant, who spent the summer storming up and down the Dakotas, hurling charges at BIA officials and beating up women who got in his way. The people at Rosebud don't trust Bri5htman (who led the occupation of the Black Hills' Mount Rushmore last year), and the association of him with Burnette, whether or not it is true, un­doubtedly hurt Burnette. 
The book is a must for anyone who wants to understand the Indian reserva­tion scene today. Burnette has been around for a long time, all the while fighting for Indian rights, and refusing to take the bribe -which is outstanding in itself in Indian circles. .j, 
David Chavers 

CAPITOL SCOUT 
ln' a reorganization of the Solicitor's Office within the Interior Department, a phalanx of five attorneys has received special assignments in major areas of treaty trust responsibilities. 
The Solicitor's Office is the legal arm of Interior concerned with that depart­ment's programs and activities relating to torts and claims, 
Foremost in -the public eye was the assignment of Senior Atty. Harold A. Ranquist to the area of Indian water rights. Ranquist will work directly under Acting Associates Solicitor William A. Gershuny who supervises Interior's Di­vision of Indian Affairs. 
Asst. Solicitor Charles M. Soller has been assigned to matters of tribal govern­ment, which includes enrollment, approval of constitutions and ordinances, the extension of the Indian Reorganiza­tion Act, tribal elections, and application of the Indian Civil Rights Act of 1 968 which is currently being implemented through several task force studies. 

monitor 
rights as well as tribal and 1 
land rights, boundary que ti 
and allotments. 
An Interior spokesman d n special assignments in the 'oli at fice as a " positive effort Department to zero in on ea h Indian affairs with legal mu I move to convince the tribe that was committed to the defen rights across the board. 
Former South Dakota o 
E. Y. Berry, a conservatvoni member of the Hou e Int Insular Affairs Committee. h pointed to the 11-member a_d i on national park , hi t buildings and monument · 
The Board advises the Inter~ tary on Park Service ma_tter . ministration of historic it members serve for term up to 


Jloug _ d from page 5) 
onun ue 
) n the bottom of the academic 

hildren o~e. . ..they receive _minimal 1ote_flln p and instruction... . It is rather ira•n• g knowledge on the reservation li>mrnon any dormitory aides hold 
hat rn "

1 . . al avajos in · contempt.
rad1t1on l . h' .

1 In interpersonal re ati?ns hips it .wads d that a poor re1at10ns ip existe 
00. n the dorm aides and students; 
t,,ee . h h t· h 
ere rated low in t oug t o eac

the,· \\' · d b
,her. The best rapp0Lrt_kex1s_te hetdween t and teachers. 1 ew1se t e orm Pi;;arent relationships revealed that ,he\ had low respect to each other. While he eemed divergent, th~ tren~ showed hat interpersonal relat10nsh1p were I h " d"
o,erall in t e goo range. . . . to t people in the community felt 
there were no sign~ficant conf~~cts among ard administrative and staff members. ,ent • per cent of those interviewed felt ihe, under tood the board's policies and r a<1ed enthusiastically at the suggestion f more avajo administrators and 
hoot . The people of the community felt the hoot hould be under the control of the mmunity, with both bi-cultural and bi­

lin ual programs. 
The · recognized that community ontr I exi ts and interest does exist in 1h chool. They feel it's a good thing to inrnl ed not only that parents have a oit in the chool affairs, but that they re helping to make a system that will 
r , italize their cultural identity, prestige, nd ueate harmony among themselves. >me expressed a desire to continue 1h pro ram through the high school or 
II e le el. Approximately 93 per cent h ed tlTe idea of a bicultural and bi­lin ual ed~ ~tion, saying that knowledge 
both wntmg and speech in both lang­a · wa de irable. 'lhe . avajo study made 12 general ntlu ion and recommendations: 1• Continued operation of RRDS as a


~1 1 
hool with a challenge to other n •an chool · They felt that there was n 'ppropriate philosophy for parental
tmohement. 
') .. 

--· •nee RRDS is a successful model it be renamed as an established I edu ational institution. · ~unding must be perpetual to con­It exi tence. There i d t· . 

01 t . a nee or more teaching
1
ena and ideas. Also mentioned re a ne d f 

1 e or more skilled bi-lingual
1
ndu tura_l leadership in administratio~ ( ord1nat· · h

-p •on mt e program. 1 · · arent are involved. and know what 
01n on .

but th · ot only are they involved 

e · xh'bI • · · ' 
lt pnde m the community
cho I d ,
o , an what they are 
doing for their children. 

6. 
Follow-up investigations to chart the progress of the students. 

7. 
Self evaluation by the people of Rough Rock should be continued. 

8. 
People and materials from the com­munity are a daily part of classroom life. This is one of the factors creating a relaxed atmosphere at the school. 

9. 
The Rough Rock School Board is the one in the State of Arizona that most nearly meets and carries out the general power and duties as prescribed in the Arizona Revised Statutes. 


10. 
Action by the Navajo Tribal Council to " enact by legislation a definite educational policy and actually support and enforce its policy. " 


11 . Additional schools like Rough Rock should be set up with federal funds. 
12. The tribe should "initiate a long range program of an adequate all weather road system." 

The overall results of the Rough Rock experiment, which started out as an experiment in bi-lingual, bi-cultural education with local control, seem to be that the idea will catch on. Rough Rock school has proved that such an approach will work, and is a viable alternative to the BIA heavy-handed approach of "be a white man whether you want to or not." 
The ideas from Rough Rock -local control of Indian schools, with the culture of the tribe being taken into ac­count in the curriculum -are catching on around the rest of Indian country.Just recently a coalition of community-con­trolled Indian school boards was formed to seek funding and local control from the BIA. There are five such boards active at the moment. They want to speed up the Bureau's announced aim of local control, the aim was announced years ago, and until last year there was local control in only two Indian schools in the nation, and one of these had funding from a foundation. This is only a small fraction of the total of 225 federal Indian schools. 
But the idea has caught on now. It is sure to continue. 
TESQUEUQUE, N.M. (AIPA) -At least a fourth of the members of Tesuque Pueblo have launched a major campaign to save their land and water involved in a 99-year lease for the construction of a city across the street from the pueblo on their land. 
Charging that a small clique of tribal leaders contracted the land for a pittance to build the city of Colonias de Santa Fe, the tribesmen are protesting the lack of consent by the tribe, inevitable pollution of water and air, and the irreversibility of the lease in the future. 

1 7 
(continued from page 6) 
how to develop the land and we'll develop all these things because we know how. You're inclined to be lazy and you don't want to work. You want to just live free and you don't want to do nothing but just live your own way so therefore we'll reserve you that right and you be our ward. I'll become the Great White Father and I'll be responsible and I'll provide you with all the necessary means to live and one thing and another and guarantee your happiness in your reservation. '" 
"So he became a White Father and put 
us under the Secretary of the Interior. 
Well this went on for a long time. Finally 
the Great White Father he began to get 
so greedy and one thing and another and 
the politicians and bureaucrats got so 
greedy that this White Father's arrange­
ment began to kinda deteriorate to where 
the BIA began to liquidating all the 
rancherias and reservations and 
abrogating treaties and pretty soon this 
White Father concept business kinda all 
blew up and so it come to this settlement 
so they said 'No, now we want title to 
this land.' So they come about and used 
this great White Father concept business 
to weaken Indians, to demoralize them to 
where then they said 'We'll be Gods 
now. White people can't be White 
Fathers no more, we'll be Gods now.' " 
"So now the government is the god 
and all the bureaucrats act like gods. 
They say 'Well, we'll decide what's good 
for you, we'll decide if we will give you 
an allotment. We'll decide whether it'-s 
suitable for your Indian occupancy or 
not. We'll decide what's good for you 
until the extent that we'll even offer you 
money for your title. But we'll decide 
whether you'll get it or not and how 
much of it you'll get,' and if you got any 
doubts about what I'm talking about 
under this God concept today you read 
public Law 9507." 
"In there the government has set itself 
up to be God to the extent that it will 
decide who is Indian to be enrolled in this 
government enrollment, this BIA enroll­
ment today, and who is qualified to be 
enrolled. They will decide that, not you, 
and it will not be decided on the basis of 
whether they have Indian blood which 
you are required to have to be Indian. 
But they will enroll whoever they decide, 
to be able to be accepted Indian, not 
recognized on the basis of proven Indian 
blood. And this is provided in Section 
One of Public Law 9507, the authoriza­
tion law, the last phase of this settlement 
business. " 

**************** 



SECOND EVENING 

Again the story hour is come, and the good old wife of the legend-teller has made her poor home as warm and pleasant as may be, in expectation of their guests. She is proud of her husband's honorable posi­tion as the village teacher, and makes all the children welcome, as they arrive, with her shrill-voiced, cheerful greeting: 
"Han, han; sit down, sit down; that is right, that is very right, my grandchild!" 
Tonight the Humming-bird has come leading by the hand her small brother, who stumbles along in his fringed, leath­ern leggings a11d handsome!y beaded moc­casins, his chubby, solemn face finished off with two long, black braids tied with strips of otter skin. As he is inclined to be restless and to talk out of season, she keeps him close beside her. 
"It is cold tonight! " he pipes up sud­denly when all is quiet. "Why do we not listen to these stories in the warm sum­mertime, elder sister?" 
"Hush, my little brother!" Tanagela reproves him with a frightened look. "Have you never heard that if the old stories are told in summer, the snakes will creep into our beds?" she whispers fear­fully. 
"That is true, my granddaughter," assents the old man. "Yet we may tell a legend of summer days to comfort the heart of the small brother! " 
THE FROGS AND THE CRANE 
In the heart of the wood·s there lay a cool green pond. The shores of the pond were set with ranks of tall bulrushes that waved crisply in the wind, and in the shallow bays there were fleets of broad water lily leaves. Among the rushes and reeds and in the quiet water there dwelt a large tribe of Frogs. 
On every warm night of spring, the voices of the Frogs arose in a cheerful chorus. Some voices were low and deep ­these were the oldest and wisest of the Frogs; at least, they were old enough to have learned wisdom. Some were high and shrill, and these were the voices of the little Frogs who did not like to be reminded of the days when they had tails and no legs. 
"Kerrump! kerrump! I'm chief of this pond!" replied a hoarse voice from the opposite bank. 
"Kerrump! kerrump! I'm chief of this pond!" boasted a thtrd old Frog from the furthest shore of the pond. 
Now a long-leggec white Crane was standing near by, well hidden by the coarse grass that grew at the water's edge. He was very hungry that evening, and when he heard the deep voice of the first Bullfrog he stepped briskly up to him and made a quick pass under the broad leaf with his long, cruel bill. The old Frog gave a frightened croak, and kicked violently in his efforts to get away, while over the quiet pond, splash! splash! went the startled little Frogs into deep water. 
The Crane almost had him, when some­thing cold and slimy wound its~lf about one of his legs. He drew back for a second, and the Frog got safely away! But the Crane did not lose his dinner after all, for about his leg was curled a large black water snake, and that made a fair meal. 
Now he rested awhile on one leg, and listened. The first Frog was silent, but from the opposite bank the second Frog croaked boastfully: 
"Kerrump! kerrump! I'm chief of this pond!" 
The Crane began to be hungry again. He went round the pond without making any noise, and pounced upon the second Frog, who was sitting up in plain sight, swelling his chest with pride for he really thought now that he was the sole chief of the pond. 
The Cranes head and most of his long neck disappeared under the water, and all over the pond the little Frogs went splash! splash! into the deepest holes to be out of the way. 
Just as he had the Frog by one hind leg, the Crane saw something that made him let go, flap his broad wings and fly awk­wardly away to the furthest hore. It was a mink, with his slender brown body and wicked ~yes, and he had crept very close to the Crane, hoping to seize him at his meal! So the second Frog got away too; but he never spoke again. 
After a long time the Crane got over his fright and he became very hungry once more. The pond had been still so long that many of the Frogs were singing their pleas< nt chorus, and above them all there boomed the deep voice of the third and last Bullfrog, saying: 
"Kerrump! kerrump! I'm chief of this pond!" The Crane stood not far from the boaster, and he determined to silence him 
once for all. The next time he speak, he had barely said '• L·
"-erru 
when the Crane had him by the croaked and struggled in vain, a another moment he would have 
the Crc::ne's long throat. gon But just then a Fox crept up beh· Crane and seized him! The Cran•~ the Frog and was carried off 'tr in!o the woods for the Fox's upper. th1rd Frog got away; but he \\'a lamed hy the Crane's strong bill. nd neve~ dared to _open _his mouth again 
It zs not a wzse thzng to boast too lo 
Gone Song (Snoqualmie) 
Where is our song? All but gone? I am the last of the old ones here; I speak English and translate. They come every Wednesday aftern In their University truck To write our song For the j ournal of Folklore. 
they write that, But who is to remember As we told and told and told Always from memory? The students are married but 
not t 
other, And the woman drives the truck. Our young ones are scattered 
As our song is scattered Into names on the map. We are learning the white ,,· 
Our girls will drive truck • 
. h · 
And our song in snatc es 1s " Because I still remember And speak English. Our song, all but gone? Long gone? 
**** *** ***** 

19 
pJAN CHILDREN POETRY CONTEST_. ;; 

all through the twelfth g~ade. _ pen t 0 copy written on one side of 
nc clear ' e only.

P... · ,hiteman name, address and 
, our " .

Pot r right hand corner of the an uppeur Indian name and tribe in
Put \'O left hand corner. pper e entry per person for this
nh on 

l : 
Fir t prize, $8.00 
ond prize, $5.00 Iliird p~ize, $2. 00 _ fir t Honorable Ment10n: 6 months 
nption. . ond Honorable Ment10n: 3 months 

Mention: 3 months nption. nificates will be given in the above ...orie a well as for additional Com­L1ble . ud e will be selected by the Editorial dof thi magazine. 
ttned around the country. Among its mo t members, Sioux John Trudell is plo) ed a youth coordinator by Okla­1 n for Indian Opportunity (010) in rman, Okla. La Neda Means is 
~•....._•....._•.._•.._•.._.~ 
•....>..M~,4>.4>. • 



WASHINGTON COMMENTARY 
"The nation's Indian leaders have been invited to select a majority candi­date to head OEO's Indian Division in Washington, D.C. on Oct. 13, said Designate director Phillip V. Sanchez in an interview here. 
Sanchez said there was "no question" that a qualified Indian would be chosen to replace Dr. James J . Wilson who left OEO onjuly 2. 
An announced plan to combine the Indian Division with the Migrant Division within OEO, said Sanchez, was a move to enhance the status of the two division heads and provide them with a direct liaison on Capitol Hill. 
(Sanchez, 41 , a Mexican-American, awaits congressional confirmation of his presidential nomination as OEO chief. He has replaced Frank Carlucci, who departed that agency Sept. 2 for another position.) 
Sanchez stated that the goverment cur­rently "is not doing enough for the American Indian or any other minority," but he is confident in the continuation of OEO despite widespread doubts con­cerning its survival. He said he would not have accepted his new position if it were merely to "preside over a wake." 
Readers' comments in the form ofletters or articles are welcome. Indian Voice editors reserve the right to edit material submitted. Please mail your articles to: Editor, P .O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, California 95050. 
Phone(408)246-1442 


SUBSCRIPTION DONATION FORM 
Enclosed is my subscription donation of Five Dollars ($5.00). Please 
mail the next twelve issues of IND/AN VOICE to: 
NAM E______________________ 

STRE ET _______________________ 
CITY___________ STATE------ZIP____ 
P.O. BOX 2033 .......__ SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051
Indian Voice 


"The real key," he stated, " is to push for funds and resources, and once suc­cessful operations are running, to replace them with experimentation. I think this is what poor people need. OEO's history is one of developing programs and moving them into larger grounds. The alternative is to continue to grow and become lords of all programs and give things out like welfare. History shows that does not work. " 
Sanchez saw no need for concern over the possible transfer of the Indian Com­munity Action Program (ICAP) to another agency outside OEO under the Nixon reorganization plan. 
" There will be no program changes but more money," he said. "Otherwise it's a matter of 'turf protection' -a feeling that everything is all right as long as it does not affect us. Our hallmark is involvement with the poor, and that won't change." 
Sanchez indicated OEO's attention to urban Indians focuses on debate over the 1973 OEO budget, under which " Indian opportunity centers" are contemplated. He cited both the recent four experi­mental urban center projects in various cities and development plans for other urban centers as an indication of OEO's experimentation with the urban Indian poor. 
"Fortunately for Indians," said Sanchez, "your culture has become ybur propellant, not your albatross." 
Sanchez comes from a migrant family in California which worked in the fields of that state, and that experience, he said, gave him a private view of the 25 million persons in the U.S. caught in a cycle of poverty. 
Sanchez stated he would implement the ixon Doctrine of self-determination by "carrying out orders" in terms of job opportunities in particular and industrial development projects on reservations: 
NORBERT HILL, an Oneida councilman who is gentlemanly but candid, suggests that the powers-that-be in Washington responsible for the set­back of the Commissioner's new Indian team in the Bureau " kiss the south end of an equine quadruped. " 



AN INDIAN PRAYER 
By Kathleen Slate 

I let the arrow fly 
Straight 
it goes 
to kill the Enemy Gods. 

ofour people 
the hunger people, 
the ghosts that haunt the 

sixty lodges standing. 
I will not forget 
I will keep the promise I have made to my bow to my arrows to the sunrise ... and the rainbow. I will not forget I will come back I will bring back my life. changed. For the people are lonely and the fire has gone to embers for so long . .. And now the fire is needed. The land has grown cold. Andfrom the four directions the call has come to rise, my people. We must sing a new song . .. make a new way. 

C/) --c:i 
. !:TI 
C
z ~ t::d
en
._ ~+>-~
. C 
..... .Q_ 
r
0 --c:i
~ --c:i
C/) 0 
~ !:TI Z. C/) 
~ 
~
o­
. ti ~ .N . ~ 
n 
.r 0 0 !:TI 
..... +>-!:TI 
0
"r:I 
'1VHl3:.LVW 03:.LVO 3:fl'lVA 3:WI.L 

l~0~6 VINHO.U~V:) 'VNV~:J V .LNVS SSOl: XOR 'ffd JI 







