INSIDE THE NATIVE AMERICAN EMBASSY 
PROFILE: VINE DELORIA, Jr. 
THEY KILL MY BUFFALO 
FLYING EAGLE'S SECRET 

EDUCATIONAL GENOCIDE 
NIXON'S NEW INDIAN BUDGET 
THE LAST MAJOR LAND TREATY OF THE U.S. 
Our faces are on the mountains ... ......~----,.,,,,,,.,~~~~,.......,.,,, our spirit rises. 

Not just another Indian book . a GENUINE legend. 
Told in the true fashion of a Hageotah (story teller), The Secret of No Face has never been recorded before. It's a tale of Utgo (evil) and Orenda (the power for good) and provides a unique glimpse of Iroquois culture and tradition. 
Written by an actual Seneca Pine Tree Chief and his life-long friend Oledoska, the volume includes full color illustrations and sketches. It will fascinate both young and old readers. 
Cloth Edition $6.95, Paperback $3.95 
"This is a delightful and illuminating Seneca folk tale." 
-LIBRARY JOURNAL 
"It is a sincere effort to · communicate a genuine Seneca leg­end or ·telling'." 

INDIAN VOICE 






·= ::.
Rugs•Beadwork•Western Relics•lndian artifacts and other related items (both antique and contemporary). Awards in all categories. 
COMPETITIVE DANCING AND OTHER INDIAN AFFAIRS ARE UNDER THE ·*·. . 
* 
DIRECTION OF SUN BEAR-EDITOR AND PUBLISHER OF MANY SMOKES MAGAZINE. A PERCENTAGE OF TICKET SALES WILL GO TO VARIOUS INDIAN BENEFITS. 
FRIDAY ISATURDAY I SUNDAY 
10 ·8 10 · 8 10 ·5 
Q Q O @ @ @ADMISSION $1.50 Children under 12-75c Under 6-Free @@@ 0 0 0 
NO COINS. BOTTLES, MODERN MILITARY ITEMS, GENERAL ANTIQUES OR FLEA MARKET ITEMS. 
11111 


A friend to help. A friend to write to. A friend to share his--or her-joy as a young life is transformed from ap­palling hardship to bright new hope and pride-because of your com­passion. 
Sponsoring an American Indian child through Futures For Children can work many wonders: 
• 
Keep "your child" in school by directly financing shoes, clothing, and other necessities. (Right now many Indian chil­dren have little more than the threadbare clothes on their backs.) 

• 
Open a new world "beyond the reservation" for your child through your concerned friend­ship. 

• 
Provide hope, self-esteem and confidence-perhaps for the first time in a child's life. 


Decide now to sponsor a young Indian boy or girl. It will be a rewarding ex­perience for your entire family. 
7

r@ F-;-URES FO~HILDRE; 1
I ~ 5612 Parkston Road,

I Washington, D.C. 20016 I 
Yes, I (we) want to sponsor an I
I. 
American Indian child . . . 

I . a boy . a girl O either I Enclosed is a check for $_____I ($15 monthly; $45 quarterly; $90 I semi-annually; $180 annually)
I . Here's help, not as a Sponsor, but I 
, with a check for $ 
. Please send more information. 

1
1

IName I I Address I LCity-State -Zip ______J 
TRUE TO FORM, THE NIXON ADMINISTRATION is showing its real lack of C ~merican In_dians. Instead _of re_ally c~ring about what happens to India~~;fi d1an water nghts, and Indian nghts m general, the Republicans are show· their expressed motives in Indian affairs are different from what is in thei 111g The cliche expresses it well: white man speak with forked tongue. r In July of 1970, after 18 months in office, most ofthem spent without ha 
. Commissioner of Indian Affairs, the President stated in a much quoted speech he believed in the right of Indians to have self-government, to manage tribal to run economic programs on and off the reservations, to be included in th ning process, and, perhaps, to make their own mistakes. (It's about time· Service bureaucrats on the reservations have been making all the mistakes for past 70 years.) Mr. Nixon also stated that the urban Indian in the United Sta special problems, and that these problems deserved some special attention. 
Now it becomes clear that the Nixon Administration was talking through hat all the time. Early in the summer the gossip around Washington started one of the rumors was that if Nixon won, he would fire Louis R. Bruce, the Commissioner. According to the talk, the Nixon men were more than mad at way Bruce had found talented and qualified Indians to fill most of the top lo his office. 
The Administration has tried several tactics in an effort to weaken theefli what Bruce was trying to do. The most blatant thing was the appointment of J 
0. Crow, an old-line Yes-man, as the assistant commissioner. For a few Crow's power exceeded that of Bruce, which might be a first in government, that time Crow cancelled or held up all tribal contracts for federal services, w · the only way tribes can legally take over the running of their own affair . With the huge outcry from Indian country that followed these treachero tions of Crow (obviously done with the blessing of Rogers Morton and the House), Crow's wings were clipped, and Bruce once again could countermand of the orders Crow had put out. It was obvious to all concerned that Crow had brought in to stop the things that Bruce had decided to carry out. 
Louie Bruce is not an unsophisticated man, and without a doubt saw t 
the flim-flam that the Nixonians were pulling. But, after the President w record with his promise of Indian self-determination, Bruce decided to carryo~ letter of the Nixon declaration. He proceeded to put some of his hand-p people in key spots around the nation, letting them know that they strengthen tribal governments and get them ready eventually to take over. 
One of the key people in this was Anthony (Tony) Lincoln. A you~g. 1 just past 30, Lincoln was initially brought to Washington in the admirus shakeup that was one of Bruce's first major actions. Within several month be transferred to the job of Area Director for the Navaho Area, probably them portant field position in the Bureau. 
l 
Lincoln proceeded to worry his confederates in the Bureau by nspicuously absent at several crucial times, when the tribal governme;t ke action on its own. Suddenly, at the end of summer, Lincoln declare Navaho tribe would almost immediately take over all federal services. 
This was apparently the last straw with the Nixon people. T~ey a~ decided then that Bruce had to go, and m November his "res1gnat1o0 "accepted." 

IND/AN VOICE 3 
which we affect in Europe, 
no value at all . .. O liberal in giving that 

• ,s· 

indian*
u ,, 
thing. -AMERIGO VESPUCCI 
-
AMERICAN PUBLISHING T!VE COMPANY 

\IOICC 

residEea:~man, Dakota 

*Though we are not Indians, The People have a variety of names for themselves. Among them: Human Beings, The
d of Directors 

Original People, Tobacco People, Keepers of the Fire, Corn 
~Chavers, Lum~ee 

People, etc. With this in mind, we will refer to Native People
hard Green, Oneida 

simply as Indians when convenient in the text.
Blacksmith, Lakota 
,e nn Hansen, Acoma 

VOLUME Ill, NO. 1 MARCH 1973
Carole Stubbs, Oa~ota en Ryan, Abenakt TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 a Ryan, Chippewa rlhur MU~r~ Quechan 
EDITORIALS .. -... ...... ..... .... .. .. . ... . ... . . .. ... . ... . .. .. . . . .. ... 2 
MAIL CALL .........................................................4 / ,. ./ ?f' INSIDE THE NATIVE AMERICAN EMBASSY/Oledoska ................6 
./ 

EDUCATIONAL GENOCIDE/ F.H.B..... . .... . ...... . ....... ....... . . 10 PROFILE: VINE DELORIA, JR/Robert Meigs ........................ 13 NIXON'S NEW INDIAN BUDGET ... . .. .. . .. . .. .. . .. .. .. .. . .. ....... 14 NATIVE AMERICAN ART/Ah-Swan ................................. 15 FLYING EAGLE'S SECRET/Ruth Burke Hill ......................... 18 THE LAST MAJOR LAND TREATY OF THE U.S./Tom Richards, Jr... 21 THEY KILL MY BUFFALO/Dick Pryce .. . .. . ....... .. .. . ... . ... .. .. . 22 AROUND INDIAN COUNTRY .. . . . .... . ........ . . . .... ..... . ... . . . . 32 
• ·.·:::.·:.· ••••• ••• •••• •••••••• •••• • •• •• • • • ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •• • • • • •• ••• • ••••••••••••••••••••••• 4 
.::::.·:.•:•·······························.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.•.•.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.•.·.•.·.•.·.·.·•·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.•.·.·.·.•.·.·.·.·•·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.•.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.•.•.•.•.·•·.•.·.••·.•.·.·.·.·.·.·. 
..............·.•:•·············································································································································································································,
:.·:.·.·:.·.·.·.···..·.·.·...·.·...·.·...·.·...·...........·...·.·.·...·.·...·.·...·.·...·.·.....·.·.·...·...·.·...·...·...·.....·...·.....·.·.·.·.·.·...·.·.·.·...·.·.·.....·.·.·...·...·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.....·...·.·.·.·.·. 
...........·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.....·...·.·.......................·......·...·...·.·...·.·.........·.·.....·.....·.·.·.·.·...·.·...·.·...·.•.·.·.·...·.·.·...·.·.·.·.....·...·......·.......·.·.·.•.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.....·.·. 

. Voice,_ the a/I-Indian monthly m aga­Editors .. ~. publtshed by the Native American 
Fern Eastman, Dakota Dean Chavers, Lumbee Richard Green, Oneida 
,ng Company, a non-profit organiza­present an authentic view of the 

•n Ind· h' Staff
:, ,an ,story, culture and heri­
11t11,l end 
. eavor to express the hopes, 

and asp1rat· Robert Meigs, Choctaw-Cherokee Nyles Ryan, Chippewa-Abenaki 
. ions of those who are the 


Karen Ryan, Dakota
lfttve Americans. Ken Ryan, Abenaki Archie Blacksmith, Lakota Ann Hansen, Acoma Oneoda, Chippewa Carole Stubbs, Dakota 




') .l" ·•r 1· +" Indian Voice is published by Native American Publishing Com­
·-' " ---' 

pany, a non-profit organization. Manuscripts and art materials
rge,, inside f 

are welcome but no responsibility can be assumed for unsoli­
15, 16, and 17 r~nt ~over, ad shot, also art, 

cited materials. Address all correspondence to: P. 0. Box 2033, ' • , 27, and 28. Santa Clara, Ca., 95051. Subscription rates $7.50 for 1 year, 
23, 24 25 26. ast issue Jim Domke, pages 

$1 5.00 for two years and $22.00 for three years. Canadian subscribers add $1.00 per year. Copyri_qht applied for. 

IND/AN VOICE 

During the past year, an international 

MAIL CALL 

* * * Dear Editors: As many of you are probably aware, the native peoples of South America are pres­ently faced by many of the same tragic conditions which Indian peoples in the United States faced during the second half of the last centruy .. This is particularly true in the Amazon region of Brazil, where the Indian population is said to have de­clined from 200,000 people in 1964 to 100,000 people at present. The Trans­Amazonic Highway chain is now cutting across northern Brazil and in its path is bringing death, disease, and destruction to Indian peoples. At the present moment, the situation in Brazil is critical. About the only glimmer of hope in this situation is the work of Orlando and Claudio Villas-Boas in their struggle to maintain the Xingu National Park. For twenty-five years the Villas-Boas brothers have lived in the Brazilian interior, and have dedicated themselves to a unique form of Indianist policy. This policy is dif-. ferent from any other in the history of the Americas. It is based upon the premises that Indian peoples have a natural right to their own forms of social and cultural life, and that the role of government is to protect these peoples and their property from a parasitic and expansive national society. In their work, the Villas-Boas brothers have actively countered every form of frontier exploitation and oppression. In newspaper accounts and before government agencies, they have criticized age-old theo­ries of assimilation and national integra­tion. Most important, they have been courageous enough to publicly affirm the values of Indian peoples and cultures be­fore a spurious civilization which would wish to negate them. Because of the efforts of the Villas-Boas brothers, the Xingu National Park was created in 1961. Presently, there are more than 15 tribal groups in the Park, number­ing nearly 2,000 people, and representing the four native language families of Brazil. In recent years, these have been the only native peoples of northern Brazil to increase in numbers, and to have their land and territory protected before the law. Many Indian groups which surely would have been decimated by forces along the Bra­zilian frontier have been brought into ~e Park and provided with conditions to ma1 ­tain their traditional ways of life. Since 1968, however, the Park has been placed in serious jeopardy as a result of' the construction of the Trans-Amazonic Highway system. In July of 1971, one section to the north was alienated by the Brazilian government, displacing a number of tribal groups, and causing near panic among the people of the Park. At this moment, the Villas-Boas brothers are not certain what future actions the Brazilian government will take, or what will be the fate of their lifelong work. 
campaign has been waged to highlight the struggles of the Villas-Boas brothers and the Indian peoples of Brazil. Ideally, one would wish that this campaign could be waged within Brazil, but this is not a pos­sibility. Indian peoples in Brazil are not yet at the levels of political consciousness of Indian peoples in the United States or in the highland countries of South America. Similarly, non-Indian progressive forces in Brazil are faced by a repressive military government which will not let any opposi­tion voices be heard. Hence, the only place where support can come is from interna­
tional concerns. 

A campaign is now being waged in 
Europe to nominate Orlando and Claudio 
Villas-Boas for the Nobel Peace Prize in 
the coming year. Orlando and Claudio 
are not the type of men who need such 
prestige to carry on with their work. To 
the contrary, they are presently camped 
with the Kreana-Koree Indians in the most 
isolated part of the Brazilian interior, at­
tempting to convince them to enter the 
Xingu Park, before the Trans-Amazonic 
Highway reaches their villages, and brings 
with it imminent doom. 

The Peace Prize, however, can be im­
portant for the Villas-Boas brothers' work, 
and for their present struggle against Bra­
zilian Indianist policies. It would highlight 
their work, and the conditions faced by 
Indian peoples, to a world audience. It 
would force the Brazilian government to 
face up to international opinion, and to 
support legally recognized reserves, in 
spite of their the government's (ed.} 
wishes. Most important, it would recognize 
the rights of Indian peoples, not only in 
Brazil, but throughout the Americas, to 
maintain their own territorial and national 
integrity, and to continue with their own 
social and cultural lives. 

We are writing this letter to ask your 
assistance. The Nobel Peace Prize Commit­
tee makes it choices under the advice of 
various people and organizations. We ~re 
of the opinion that if enough people wn~e 
to the Committee, Orlando and Claudio 
will be given the Peach Prize. Hence, we 
are sending off this statement in the hope 
that you will drop a short letter to the 
effect: 

We wish to present the following can­
didates for the Nobel Peace Prize: 
ORLANDO AND CLAUDIO VILLAS-BOAS 

in recognition of their lifelong struggle 
for the Indian people of Amazonia, and 
their unique achievements in protecting 
the tribal peoples of the Xingu National 
Park. 

Your letter should be sent to: Mr. August 
Schou, Director, Nobel Peace Prize Com­
mittee Det Norske Nobelinstitutt, Dram­
mensv~ien 19, Oslo 2, Norway. 

A copy should also be sent to: Mr. 
Kenneth S. Brecher, New College, Oxford 
University, Oxford, England. 
* * * 
Editors: The enclosed check for tion to INDIAN V01cV'e~r'1 
investment in the future of 
The !ull _meani~g of their0;r.mother s side (Tlmgit Grou en has been woefully neglected' S.B This is the result of my or . because I wasn't raised a~Wn people. I gained my k ong
• now
textbooks m Anthropology bile 
for my BA. w quite by accident a non-I . pomted out your magazine t bookrack in the college : Ille especially appreciate the broad00 the whole Indian you present· his philosophy, his joys and s~rr hum~n. _Our s~:ms will grow to ap: and m time will regard their 'Ind' high· self-esteem. 
* * * 
Editors: 
I received the book "The 
Face" and I'm delighted with il 
something I can proudly pass on to 
ren when they get older. 
I am a Seneca-Mohawk Indian 
Allegany Reservation in New y 
and lived near the Cornplanter 
and grew up around that area. My 
is Sio"ux from South Dakota so we 
to have a task in teaching ourc · 
both our tribes. But this book 
great deal. 
I am enclosing a check in the 
$9:50 for an Alcatraz poster and 
issues of INDIAN VOICE. 
Thanking you in advance. 
MRS. LEI 
Dallas, Texas 
When we receive letters such Ill above, we are more convinced than our work must continue. When WI a better line of communicat' traditional people in Alaska we wiB our coverage in that important as the posters (Alcatraz) are con progress has been delayed. Wes· to accept sub-quality workmans currently negotiating with other P will definitely send the poster, They're well worth the wait; t beautiful. Remember, patience is 
virtue. 
* * * 

SHELTON H. DAVIS Readers· comments in the fonn ol Cambridge, Mass. articles are welcome. Indian ~ and raerve the right to edit mat•~ MARIE-HELENE LARAQUE Please mail your articles to~ Ed-Berkeley, Calif. 2033, Santa Clara, CalifornlB 9 * * * 

friends: r sending I DIAN VOICE ­'fhanks fO nnot seem to get enough
I ca d h . 1· 

.1, great· t your people an t e1r 1ves 
1 . , abou . d •
ming so lacking m my e ucat1on hich was 'defunct' school system! And
hour

tbfOUg ine surely he1ps. . ur magazl for the bumper sticker sent 'fhanks a :~ine. My daughter is putting it ·ah the ma;s she goes to N orthridge campus ohercar, ould like to have another one
1 

ry day.r ;hough I really wonder if it ~s r mY ca_'t for a white woman to have 1t ppropna e (AMERICA IS INDIAN
her car. 
on TRY) 1feel deeply and keenly about 
•ssue of Indian life and white
I

who e I d. b I d , 
, tions against In ians ut on t pies acoffend any Indians with such t to · · I
rd signs. My commitment 1s tota to u~a Indians help themselves as a lot of
lping b . h. I 
1 down here know. But, emg w 1te,~:t always aware ofwhat is acceptable or Indians. However, I am PROUD to 
DOI to ·ct bl. I
d with you and on your s1 e, p~ 1c y od privately, in the ~reat ~truggle ofhfe ~nd th now going on m this country agamst 
Indians. . 
If ou think it would be OK for me to J?Ut 1t 
0 my car, Iwill. In any event, I am sendmg a dollar for two of th~ AMERICA ~S IN­DI COUNTRY stickers so I can give one to a friend at Indian Center West here in 
ul er City. How do you feel about seeing th. ticker on my car? Thanks again for INDIAN VOICE. I wish 
ou would make a bumper sticker that said: THI K INDIAN -BUY FROM IN­DI S. I would like to see one like that dis­
ed on people's cars. JEAN L. SORENSON 
Yi , Ms. Sorenson, by all means affix your bumper sticker. Also, accept our thanks for 'Our suggestion; we'll definitely consider it t next time we order a batch. We ap­pr, ~iate your awareness ofIndian sensitivity -~•ch can be 'touchy' at times, but your IIC~er merely states a fact that all Indians magreement with. It's evident that you already 't~ink Indian' since your plan is to . ea slicker with a friend. That is the ln­
dian Way. 
* * * 

r Sir: Thes · · 
oci~I Environment Learning Center nextension of the St. Paul Public Schools 
m's S · · 
. ocial Studies Department which 

rate m the f. f .
Th con mes o the pubhc school. tte!achers at the S.E.L.C. are making ea dpt to broaden the students' perspec­
n concept r d· · · 
e are als . egar mg mmonty groups. hs andO trrm~ to dispel so many of the ha preJudices that are implanted at
nearly age. teachers pl . .
broad . an to use penod1cals for our ren' .enmg and knowledge, then for the 
Want to b b 
l: 1. Ind· e a le to show the children have t~~s have 'communities'. 2. In­
to functiiir g~ve_rnment as well as hav­n withm the confines of the 
Federal Government. 3. Indians have inter­tribal relationships and unity. 4. Indians have an Educational System. 5. Indians have a unique society. 6. Indians have a culture, past and present. 7. Indian culture is to be respected as any other. 8. Indians are people, not wild, just different. 
We teachers need materials to be able to function inteligently and to bring about social and attitudinal change. Material avail­able on the American Indian is very difficult to obtain; at least material we teachers feel is factual, riot fictional. Please allow us the pri­vilege of implementing the use of your magazine in our classroom. 
We are trying. 
MRS. CYNTHIA NOLAN Longfellow School St. Paul, Minn. 
Please excuse these brief answers to your eight statements; expanded versions are available in each issue. (I) Most Indian com­munities are below the recognized poverty level. Average income is $1,500; 75% below the nationa average and $1,000 lower than the average blackfamily. (2)In 1924 the U.S. and Canadian governments disbanded hereditary tribal councils. This caused puppet elected Indians who were not representative of the majority to gain con­trol. It is against the traditional Indiay way to vote for leaders -you must first prove yourself thereby creating a following. (3) It has only been during the pastfive years that Indian unity is beginning to take shape. (4) At this writing there are less than 15 Indian controlled schools. BIA schools number 226; 77 of these are boarding schools. Some Navajo children, for example, are still being punishedfor speaking their native tongue in government schools. (5) Indians realize that as temporary visitors, Earth is really the only thing human bein.gs have. The idea is to leave Earth-Mother in the exact condition you found her so that other creatures, andfuture generations can share all her many .wonders. 
(6) 
Most Anthropologists think Indian culture is dying; the exact opposite is the truth. Indians are going through aperiod of re-awakening which the prophets deem necessary before embarking on . the 'true' path. (7) As more and more white people realize harmony with nature must be achieved, Indian culture will rise to its ap­pointed place in the Creator's great scheme. 

(8) 
Indians fought savagely on their own ground only after they realized the white man's true purpose. Indian civilization was content and advanced enough to satisfy its citizens -something the European culture, after 400 years, seems in.capable of ac­complishing. 





Quakers 
are more than a bunch of do-gooders. 

Some even carry flags. 
There are 190,606 Quakers in the world-119,934 in the United States. 
Not one prescribes the kind of flag (if any) another Quaker carries. Or his drum. Or piccolo. 
Quakers (members of the Society of Friends) are religious. No flags for that. 
Quakers seek the Inner Light in their relationships with God and man. No flags here, either. 
Their flags are their testimonies and concerns: Peace. Love. Family. Education. Environment. Equality of sexes and races. That of God in every man. Prison reform. Justice. Simplicity. Brotherhood. Caring. 
That's been going on for 319 years. There's nothing static about it. The search goes on always and in many ways. 



FRIENDS JOURNAL 

in its simple, modest way, tries twenty-one times a year to reflect Quaker life and thought today and raise a flag here and there about man's condition. 
Even if you do not want a flag, the coupon below and a few dollars may give you something important: Inspiration. Comfort. Hope. Love. 
We will not try to make a flag­waver, a Quaker, or anything else out of you. Maybe together we can do some good. 
Friends Journal, 152-A N. 15th Street, Philadelphia 19102 
Name_____________ 
StreeL------------­
City_____________ 
State•-------iP----­
Please send me Friends Journal far 6 months ($3.00); one year ($5.50). (Payment enclosed). 




IND/AN VOICE 
of the BIA occupation. 


Contrary to mass media reports ~nd inferences, the Trail ,j Broken Treaties Caravan which took over the BIA 0 "/ding in Washington, D. C., November 2-8, 1972, was not !mall splinter group of militant~" or irresponsible rabble ~users. Instead, they were comprised of sincere American Indians of many tribes throughout our land; some even ;,urneying from such far away places as Alaska and rthern Canada. These people were dedicated to the task of pr, venting the complete extinction oftheir race and way of , . They were, moreover, supported by such reputable organizations as NCAl NA LDEF, NA WAC, and NILB among several others. Every move they made was done only after sober reflection and spiritual guidance had been 
ught. 

They came by f oot, in broken-down buses and cars; men, 
men, and children ofall ages ranging from babes in arms to old people in their seventies. Many of them were finan­tially broke. They came in desperation for the 371 treaties the United States government has systematically violated 
ince 1776. . To find out what actually happenedduring this crucial ac­t~n,. several correspondents were among those barricaded llhm the BIA walls. The f allowing has been gleanedfrom hours oftaped recordings from within, what wasfor seven da , the American Indian Embassy. 
Fro~ the very beginning, every attempt was made to in­n emence us. When we first arrived, we circled the White OUSe Th r d" ·d · 
· e P~ ice .1v1 ed us mto two groups, directing one
" 
~ Stephens Episcopal Church which had been selected t e ~ederal_ Government for our lodging. The church pro ed impossible. Situated in a run-down-area several of 
Ur early a · 1 f ' 
inhab· rnva s ound the floors laden with debris and . ated by plague-carrying rats. There was little cooking 
Uapment and th ·t f ·1· .

bandJ d e sam ary ac1 1tles could not possibly have e our needs. We immediately called a meeting and 
decided to join our buddies in the BIA building. There are those who will lead you into thinking our destruction of the BIA building was premeditated. This is not so. It was the Government Officials themselves who first allowed us use of its interior. 
Even in the BIA building the board and lodging facilities proved inadequate. Most ofus slept under chilled conditions in blankets and sleeping bags on floors, in hallways and of­fices. Later, government sources offered to alleviate the congested conditions by opening the General Service Ad­ministrations De,partmental Auditorium a short distance away. An exploratory force of our people, however, found the building to be locked up. Only then were the weasel words pronounced that the offer had been contingent of"the peaceful and complete" evacuation of the BIA building. This was but one of the many traps set. 
You should have seen all the people, all those opportunists attempting to get on the Trail of Broken Treaties bandwagon. There was even a band of gypsies soliciting money for our Indian caravan. An Indian delegation was sent to make sure our people got that money, but with all the confusion, we never learned if they collected. 
Then consider those fine American journalists represen­ting publications all over our country. Oh, they begged to be permitted to document the whole works. They said they wanted to present our side-the American Indian side. When things looked dangerous, however, they melted away like snow before the midday sun. Suddenly they were gone. All of them. They had their story, and now failed to live up to their com'mittments. As usual, the Indian side was never presented to the public by the media. Do you still believe that America has freedom of the press? 
One ray of hope remained, however. We saw responsible reporters interested in our viewpoint from Japan, Sweden, Germany, Russia, Denmark, France, England, and several other countries. Quite probably, their presence deterred 


harsh treatment of our Trail of Broken Treaties Caravan 
people. 
You know, despite our hardships and anxieties, it was good to meet Indian people from all over. In a way it was like old camping-ground days where our speakers harangued us or kept us up to date on how negotiations were proceeding; where individuals told oftheir grievances and wrongs; where together we sang the good old Indian songs and gave the modern AIM war chant; where sometimes we broke into small groups and burned sage and got to know each other better. As always with us, we joke no matter how hard times are. It was a great cross-pollination of ideas and customs. It was a reawakening of the hitherto dormant Indian spirit. It was the beginning of a drawing together, a unity, that our independent acting people have long needed. And with us, the stereotype ofthe drunken Indian dissolved. There was no drunkenness or dope taking among our protesters. 
Among our nine demands ofNovember 3, 1972, we sought the removal of John Crow, Deputy BIA Commissioner; Harrison Loesch, Assistant Secretary of the Interior and Robert Robertson, National Council on Indian Op­portunity. All three have waxed fat on the exploitation of our people, and Robinson should be replaced by an Indian who understands our problems better. We also demanded that our Indian brother and friend Louis Bruce be given back his authority as Commissioner in Indian Affairs, until such executive and legislative actions are implemented in our twenty point solutions paper. We sought to uproot and purge the BIA cancer out. Has the BIA ever said, "let us · work with you from your cultural background?" Have they ever really wanted to help us? Do you think they would give 
heed to any of our present nine demands? 
We wanted to honor Ira Hayes and John Rice, two ofour Indian war heroes, buried in Arlington Cemetery. U.S. Dis­trict Judge Howard F. Corcoran thought we were pulling a cheap publicity stunt and upheld the Army's negative decision that our actions "would be too closely related to partisan Indian activities, being conducted outside the cemetery." Only when the Court of Appeals changed this by decreeing his verdict "impinged on the rights of frees outside the cemetery," were we permitted our rights. marched sixty people strong; veterans, wives and children eluding Henry Wauwasik's mother, who is related to J Rice. The Broken Treaties Drum went with us over bridge to Arlington Cemetery. We did not go as thew man is apt to do, disrespectful of the dead. We did not go a rip-off trip. We went like decent human beings. A lot of people do not know that our men had the hi percentage ratio of voluntary enlistments for the Services of any minority group for World War I. From Civil War to the Vietnam mess we have enlisted way out proportion to our numbers. We have been naive, for we less than nothing for our efforts. Our former foes, princi Germans and Italians of World War II come overherefi Europe and buy homes in areas that remain closed tous, original people. Yes, we've smartened up and will no lo commit ourselves freely to the whiteman's dirty and unnecessary wars. 
. 
So through the week, seventeen of our leaders nego with representatives of five government agencies. !hey the usual empty words; empty promises. Seems hke government guys couldn't reach a decision on an Every time we would pin them down to a committment, would have to make a phone call with the inevitable into a nebulous future or a two-way reply. Not one.of solutions had been met. Then we learned that despite dickering, the BIA budget had already been drawn up 1973. What hypocrites! 
At one time they even restricted Commissione! 
Bruce the Interior Department Building. They ke~t. him . locked doors; an act symbolic of making a po~1t1cal P We wanted Louis to be part of our negotiating co . Finally they released him. Bruce then told us, "I ~ your group in every way in bringing about the f~lfi treaties for our Indian people. I will negotiate W ficials of the government and will continue to staY \VI d here in this building. We Indians are a small group a~ stick together. We must encourage non-Indians to : of view." He is a real friend. We think Bruce 8 
place among our greatest heroes, for he 
to ~t his political career on the block for us. 
unsetfishlY/ n Indian woman complained that where she A Cana 1:hey had been oppressed for a long, long time. me fro~, were among the first to have contact with the fler peoP e and she belonged to a remnant that survived a Europeans,all pox) the invaders brought with them. Today di ase (~rnhave very little land or possessions left. The white 11er ~ 0ferns surround their reservation like an ever­f1180S . ar noose. Some of these Indians have moved into tightentn~ies where there is nothing left but cement to look tern ct ever see the sun go up and down. She affirms they 
t. Theydnpend on their government. Like the U.S., the only nnot e · k f 
. their government does 1s to ta e rom them. She stated, th•~g n't want our children to go ~hrough what I've gone I O h,, and added, "the only thmg we have left to fight ~r~~g dur pride." This good person joined our Caravan of t kisn Treaties because she believes in what we stand for. 
Bro e · · h h"ld d h ·11 .
fl r pirit will survive 1!1 er~ 1 ren a~ t ey w1 contmue fight for Indian justice. Will the white man ever become t _ -1 ·zed enough to deal with us fairly? We are Indians no 
CIVI11 h . .
matter how many papers~ e government signs mto law. In this building, the police came every day to threaten us. 
era! of our young men were severely clubbed when we firstarrived. There should be no need for barricades. Native people should have the right to stay in their own embassy. 
e lived under constant threat of being killed or busted. As t n ion increased, we removed the very young, the crippled and the very old to places outside our hastily constructed fi rtress. It began to get crucial and some of our people panicked and started climbing the walls in an effort to leave. Three of our Medicine Men stood like a triangle and quelled this moment of weakness by chanting sacred warding-away 
ng. 

Most of us, however, were not afraid to die for our beliefs. 
me of the Lakotah's, remembering the words of their great leader, tah-shon-ka weet-ko (Crazy Horse) chanted, "Today is a good day to die." We believed the police were 
mally going to attack us. Our scouts estimated over 4,000 
II-armed police were ready to advance. Our numbers had d__indled to less than five hundred. Our, weapons were pitifully few and hastily improvised. One, of our leader's 
lied, "Lineup like we did the other night. All the men in : nt. If_ they attack us, get it on." But it didn't happen. 
rhaps It was too near the election for another Sand Creek r Wounded Knee. 
.re white man should know that with us-they are dealing It water. Only when there is no country,/will there be no 
:.er. O_f all the peoples on the earth, the In'dian has learned 1 ewith nature; the Indian alone underst'-lnds you cannot nt~uer nature. We realize that one may take ofher bountyJU t enough f , ' 
r rep! . h or one s needs. One should always replace Ea e~is with thanks for that which has been offered by m rt Mother. The white man may temporarily allay or 
up streams p f d .
• , ro ane an destroy the land foul the air
W•pe out wh I · · . ' .
once th O e species of birds, fish and ammals. But 
e sacred bal . b .


react b . ance is roken, nature will be compelled ultant :f~t th~o~gh fire, flood, famine or disease with the pn..n a ect emg the death of the human spirit. This will 
,,.. s sure as th · 

les w e sun nses and sets unless the present tabli ~-ys are changed. The white man is well on his way it. But ~ngla d_ead planet and in his arrogance, he cannot 
nd1

ing to . e ans have something great that we are not 
. give up We I d. .
aan k · n 1ans are strong hke water. We 
. now we a th E ' 

llnued e . re e arth s only hope for man's
x1stence. 
iND!AN VOICE g 

Our spiritual leaders are smart men. They burn tobacco here everyday. Some carry loaded peace pipes. Through them the supernatural beings are with us, and their power is greater than all the armaments in the rest of the world. They are with us because our road is the right way, the moral way. 
To us the BIA building has become symbolic of Evil. It represents the white power structure that has dispossessed us of our lands, educated our young to a different way, of thin­king, and kept many ofus at starvation level. This is the third time some of us have visited this structure for help and been rejected. For over three hundred years we have waited for promised help. If the BIA would have helped us, we wouldn't be here. One of our leaders aptly summed it up by saying: "Nothing but hell has come from this building." 
Should any of our leaders get hurt, none of us want to see this place standing. Now let us speak to the white man in the only English he understands. In the official papers found here, we have trapped many government lies. Let them deny this visual proof to the world, for we shall make it known. Had they listened to us with humanity's compassion, it would not be necessary to damage this building. Tradition­ally, we abhor such action, but in observing the Black man's bid for equality we have noted it is the squeaky wheel that gets the oil. 
Our actions have smoked out the Great Father in the White House from behind his camouflage ofdeceit. Can you not recall his words before the National Congress of American Indians on September 27, 1968: "Termination of tribal recognition will not be a policy objective and in no case will be imposed without Indian consent." Now see what he's doing! What is happening to the Hava supai at the bottom of the Grand Canyon? Have the Hopi Second Mesa depradations been stopped? Who was instrumental in giving renegade John Crow powers to undermine Commissioner Bruce even while he was still in office? Could he not be the one who so effectively controls the press that our side can never be fairly presented? Is he the real representative of all those soulless corporations seeking our demise because we stand in the way of their economic grasp? There was a time when we hoped that he might afford us a chance. Now we realize he has always been against us. 
By now we have gained the respect ofour people. Were we white, the newspapers would be hailing us as heroes. Much has been accomplished here which will spread like wildfire from reservation to reservation. We have done more since Thursday than all the tribal chiefs have done in the last twenty years. The BIA will never be the same again, for we have broken its utgo. When we return, each one of us will take his proper position in the community. By our actions we have become people ofaccount. We will tell the truth ofwhat happened here. We must unite our people to the Indian way. Now we have something more than pride, we have am­munition. 
The National Tribal Chairman's Association, that governmental plaything, will now be exposed. Reservation Indians will now be able to judge its true worthlessness. Webster Two Hawks, will find his lies correctly attributed to him throughout all of Indian country. John 0. Crow, who is among the lowest of our renegades, has been stripped of his powers. Red Apples will no longer have the good life at our misfortunes or get special concessions through their tattling. Their days of impunity are numbered. 
So amnesty was granted everyone. By now, we all wanted to go home. They tell us we will not be charged for this des­truction and money is advanced for us to travel. We depart in 
(See page 28) 



An account by a government official. 
Reopening Pandora's Box: Educational Genocide 1972 Style 

When the rich assemble to concern themselves with the business ofthepoor it is called charity. When the poor assemble to concern themselves with the business of the rich it is called anarchy. Paul Richard 
Searching for the truth which is the law of our being, as Gandhi so eloquen­tly spoke, one must conclude without hesitation that Native American children and youth represent the victims in the Anglo game called educational GENOCIDE. The term GENOCIDE means the intentional and systematic destruction of a people or a culture, but I would be both a hypocrite and a charlatan to select a less powerful term as I work in the center of the Navajo Reservation. 
The process of Euro-American educational GENOCIDE is conceived, nourished and perpetuated at many levels. Without question, the most damaging effects are registered through the daily interaction between the Anglo teacher and the Dine learner. This process of oppression and coercion goes unnoticed, because the learning process normally ranks at the bottom of finan­cial, political and educational priorities. Paradoxially, the classroom represents the fountainhead for the development of the young Dine minds and hearts! 
My solution to this problem of educational genocide is quite simple and straight forward: merely send about 90 percent of the Anglo teachers home to roost-back into mainstream America where they belong. Why? 
First, there are about 870 teachers now attempting to teach approximately 52,700 Dine students; ofthese only 3per cent are Navajo. Furthermore, ac­cording to B.I.A. statistics, there are 172 schools on the reservation ofwhich only 
1 percent are directed by Navajo ad­ministrators. Second, there is overwhelming evidence that local com­munity people (with a 60 to 80 percent underemployment rate) and young college graduates have the capabilities (not to imply the fallacy of Anglo de­grees or credentials) to become qualified teachers of their own people. On site teacher preparation, which is proving highly successful at our school, could well be the answer. The choice is vividly clear: either prepare quality Dine teachers for Dine children and adults, or contjnue the proces3es of educational GENOCIDE--oppression of human autonomy and individualism, fostering irrelevant academic and skills for survival, and colonization of the hearts and minds of future Dine leadership, resulting i1: another 104 years of powerl~ssness and hopelessness. 
Let us carefully examine these assertions to see if they represent fact or fancy. 
Genocide l. The Styles of Anglo Teachers and Educational Administrators 
Educational facilitators come to the Dine Nation in many sizes and shapes; however, the most important characteristics happen to be the mind (attitudinal) and heart (emotions) sets. After brief interaction with the Dine learner the following styles emerge: blatant racist teachers; benign racist teachers; missionary zealots; social conscience do-gooders; Indian saviors; spaced out liberals; journalist buffs; and economic "nest eggers". The picture does not change much regarding educational administrators except that one . might add political aspirants and­or political losers to the list. 
Confining our comments by and large to classrooJTl genocirle processes, the following scene emerges: an 
teacher who can not speak the 
language, understands little if any 
rich Dine culture, relies ·heavily 
irrelevant pedagogical skills 
competition, oral comm · 
memorization, overt rewards 
punishments, ownership, love of 
gregariousness, etc.), attempts to 
focal poirit of all learning activi · 
views man as technocrat in the 
(antithetical is the view of a de· 
balanced universe in which all 
ponents-all life forms and 
elements inter-relate and interact, 
no part being more or less im 
than another). 
But the bitter-sweet syndrome like malignant cancer. On the one the Anglo teacher establishes a 1 milieu that is rejected by the learner, causing an academic · (intellectual starvation) for the year. This Anglo teacher normally eludes that the Dine learner "apathetic" or "passive". On the hand the Anglo teacher, strategically planned manipu!atioa coercion, establishes a learmng that is seemingly accepted by the learner. This Anglo teacher beco most dangerous element in the of ·deh umanization. Typ generalizations made by these are: 
*Man, I ai:n really te~ch~ng mo~ culture ·self-determmatwn, an p
' · teac 
these kids than the NavaJO b · ht do
*These kids are re~llJ n_g_ -~ 
know that their artistic abibtl 
nate! 
*You know the other day I sho . . f f" hydrant
kids a picture o a ire of them knew what it was! 

Genocide 2. 
Educational Idea!i~m Daily Reahties.


S


versu .

h rs view educat10n as a 0glo tea~. eg to higher education or a rocess lea in citizenry of vocational­
Pd c1ass
secon. ducation (the new vogue 1echn1~.~c:reer education"). S~ldom do ord as hers view educat10n as a
lo teac 1· .

ng . between land, re ig10n, aot~htY . and humanism. To place it 
. tua1ism, . 
span h ontext it becomes a quest10n iJlanot ~\nglo teacher views his role of boW t ~verse compared to how the 
. the uni . 1 . h
10. rner views his ro e m t e
1ea 1 . .

l)iJle 
. The prevailing Ang 9 view is a
Ulllverse. . 11 h f
f superiority to a ot er orms do'at~at space ship earth can be used of th:,Anglo sees fit, and that the Anglo . h chosen master of nature 
t_n~scent of Man if est Destiny?). This 


(rema . . .f
ideology provides . 11t,t1e . i any con­sideration to the ~mes v1ew_of a quest , harmony withm the Umverse and 
,or h. h
that only man can upset t is armony and balance. After approximately three to four years of Euro-American GENOCIDE, the oung Dine learner is categorized as being stoic, lackadaisical, uncivilized, animalistic, plus a host of other oft quoted caricatures, by the Anglo teacher. These manifestations contain bout as much truth as saying that Custer was victorious at the Little Big Hom! The Anglo teacher fails to realize that the Dine learners prefer a style of learning characteristic of their native CU!ture with the underlying premise bemg that time is ever flowing; it cannot be broken. The Anglo teacher fails to realize that the Dine learners desire ~ tended periods of observation, self­~ted and · self-initiated projects, IDIDlDlal interaction between teacher 
~ learner, creativity and discovery, ~ormance when the Dine learner feels : •Y.certairi of his ability, and the . ects of tremendous peer influence, ~ pr~mature failures are oftentimes 1rith Wat~ teasing, successful attempts quiet acceptance. Consequently 
most A 1 ' 
eel . ng O teachers implement an ucat1onal praxis antithetical to the 
Dine cultural style. Patience is opted for ed u,cati o na 1 (time) efficiency. Educational GENOCIDE becomes the modus operandi; the Anglo teacher reacts to the Dine learner in terms of anglo value orientations which happen to be white middle class. 
Genocide 3. The Empathy-Sympathy Syndrome: Better Known as Low Expectations and Low Stanoards. 
These two words need concise definition for a total conceptualization to be realized. Empathy is to have walked a life in the shoes of another human being. Sympathy is to think one has walked perhaps a portion of a life in the shoes of another human being. Em­pathy is to have been denied choice. Sympathy is to have been allowed several choices. Empathy is lasting; sympathy is terminal. A personal exam­ple seems in order at this time: Whenever I observe pictures of Biafrican and Appalachian children dying of starvation, Vietnamese children dying of napalm or dead from bullets and bombs, witness car accidents where Dine children lie dead along state highway 63, I can emphasize with every parent of every dead child irregardless of political and religious ideologies and ethnic origin. My chest muscles contract to the point of near internal suffocation and my tears flow like a stream fed by the spring's melting snow. Why? Because I watched my first son, 7 years, 2 months, and 8 days old, die over a period of four days: each vital organ in his once strong and healthy body failed; a brain that finally could not respond; a doctor who called me in at 3 P.M. and said, "Mr. Schmitt, for all intent and purposes your son is dead"; yet the heart weakly beat, sometimes stopping but ever more faintly coming back; then the tears and sadness in the hearts and mind's of the nurses and doctors; then the removal of all medical equipment; and then the inevitable at 5:30 P.M., Oc­tober 26, 1970. Need anything more be said about empathy? The cards came, the flowers came, the money came, the food came, the people came, the tears came-all in sympathy. 
IND/AN VOICE 11 

I have come to believe that an Anglo teacher can never emphasize totally with the Dine learner-there exists too great a cultural, spiritual, and religious chasm. I would also challenge the sup­position that an Anglo teacher could ever become a Dine in heart and mind because the powerful leaders of th~ Dine, the medicine men, would never translate the cosmos totality of humanism into Anglo terminology. But Alas! The Anglo teacher may indeed attempt enculturation through such facades as wearing western apparel, attending various school initiated sings and community rodeos with cameras and tape recorders in hand, purchasing Dine rugs, pottery, and jewelry and eating fry bread, corn, and mutton stew. WOW! Do I feel Dine now! It is a rarity for the Anglo teacher to be invited by a Dine clan to share in the basic life style of these people. In the final appraisal about all the Anglo can feel for the Dine learner is sympathy, which is the last thing he needs. 
Before long the educational GENOCIDE of low expectations and low standards circumvents the Anglo teacher's learning approaches. Once again the Dine's learning capabilities are sacrificed for lower educational goals, and the Anglo teacher's use of low stan­dards is reinforced-and low Dine achievement is assured. 
The overt and covert acts of educational GENOCIDE by Anglo teachers and administrators will con­tinue to subjugate the Dine learner to powerlessness, hopelessness and despair until the final ultimatum is realized: send about 90 per cent of the Anglos back to mainstream WASP society. When will the Anglos realize that there is little validity in the term "Indian Problem" but on the contrary, there exists an "Anglo Problem" in America, which perhaps is a good deal more ac­curate! 
-F.H.B. 

12 IND /AN VO ICE 

The National American Indian Council offers you a umque assortment ofgreeting cards...which you'll be proud to use throughout the year. 
Abalone Shell Necklaces  Pomo Feathered Basket  San Ildefonso Black Ware Pot  
These two necklaces are typical of those used widely among Pacific Coast Indians as dance orn aments. Archeolog ical fi ndings indicate an exceedingly long tradition of abalone shell ornaments. These necklaces were made by a member of the Pomo Indians of Northern Cal iforn ia.  Th is fine coi led basket decorated with feathers and abalone shel l pendants comes from the Pomo people of Northern Cali forn ia. Th ey were highly prized treasures an d were given as gifts, sometimes to a shaman in reward for his performance on a ceremonial occasion or for a successful healing. Abalone  This pot from the San Ildefonso Pueblo in New Mexico is believed to be one of the first signed made by Maria Martinez and decorated by her Julian , who invented the technique for making famous style of pottery. This pot was purchased Maria in 1923 or 1924.  
ornaments are extremely old among Pacific Coast  
cultu res.  

For the first time, authentic American Indian artifacts and objets d'art, faithfully reproduced in full color on high gloss stock, can now grace your Christmas greetings or personal notes. They are offered in an economical assortment, specially packaged and priced, by the National American Indian Council. Authenticated by the Lowie Museum of the University of California, these cards are selected to illustrate the scope and inten­sity of previously overlooked native art forms. 
All proceeds from the sale of these cards go to help the American Indian, in a variety of projects sponsored by NAIC. The council, composed of more than a thousand Indian organizations, was recognized by the White House in May 1972 as the official national organization for the non-reservation Indian. The Council is self­supporting, and this is its first effort at raising its own funding. 
This special assortment of 48 cards and mate envelopes is attractively priced to introduce to our full line. 
Rarely could you expect to receive such a val . . . or to do so much for a worthy cause. Pl send the coupon today, and allow 45 days for delivery. 



r----------------------­
I National American Indian Council I Belli Building I San Francisco, CA 94111 
I . I enclose $6 for the special 48-cards and envelopes I . I enclose $10 for two sets, 96 cards in all_ . : D Please enclose your illustrated list of add1uonal 
I Name: _ _______________ I 
I Address,_____ _ ________ I I I I IV 3 73 

/NU/AN VOICE 7~ 

~ Qrv"'o ~~., ~~· 
,~<v 
~·~ 

Ofc\VEvolution of an_ Indian writer from the ~ Ministry to Indian law. 

~ 
. D 1 ria Jr. is probably the best 
ine e o ' ' . . . 
. American Indian mtellectual m-

n "n . . 
d Outside the Indian commumty.

id an J . h.
1971 Alvin M. Josephy, r., m is In k Red Power: The American In­; n' Fight for Freedom, ~~ote: . In hi speeches and wntmgs, _Yme 
•a Jr a Standing Rock S10ux,

I n' ., . . 

managed to articulate wit? elo­u nee, wit and anger, the attitudes, ru trations, and hopes of great num­
r of Indians in every part of the untry." . 
In hi book 1he New Indzans, 
ubli hed in 1968, Stan Steiner r nted Deloria as the epitome of the Indian -young, intelligent, an­·. eloquent. A natural born leader the growing Red Power movement. But Deloria himself would probably dis­untany claims that he is a leader in the R Power movement or that such a ment really exists. In 1970, he told thering of Indian scholars at Princeton University that the "alleged" 

R Power movement existed only "in _n teiner's head and only oc­1 nally outside that area." 
ine Deloria, Jr., has chronicled the .. ing restlessness and emerging m1htancy of the American Indian in . rat books and numerous magazine
11 
· In an article for the New York

nm .
u 
. magazme, December, 1969,
1

ona noted that certain Indian _up on the West Coast had circulated Hi •hon in an e ff ·
ort to impeach Walter

1 th
· en Secretary of the Interior. rom the urban Indian Centers on t Coast," wrote Deloria "the

h d
•r -orld · ' 

ftl • 
-oriented United Native 
... ncan t k

I PE C 00 up the battle cry. r H HICKEL" bumper th blos ?med beside "Red Power" Ind~ multitude of "Custer" slogans
•an cars"
I . 
n nother · 
azine :t1cle for the N. Y. Times ( arch, 1970), Deloria 

examined the Alcatraz movement and its significance for the Indian people and expressed the thought that the island should be given to the Indians. This writer once asked Deloria what he thought about the Alcatraz movement: 
"I think it was a helluva good idea," he replied, "but activities for publicity purposes don't do much. What is really needed is a financial base. When a situation relies solely on com­munications media it can't be held. A legislator can stay bought longer than he can be kept scared." Apparently, Deloria does not agree with those who feel that the takeover of Alcatraz was a possible manifestation of a Red Power movement. Of course, it is possible Deloria's definition of Red Power may differ somewhat from a militant activist. We detect this, for instance, in his opinion of the Alcatraz movement expressed before. During the 28th An­nual Convention of the National Congress of American Indians Deloria told this writer the NCAI conventions should try for "maximum impact." 
"The conventions are not used to gain a concensus of what we think about a situation," he went on, "we need a general reaction. Symbolic actions get symbolic response. We have to follow up on the precedents of any legal action as an interprative thing." So Deloria seems to be saying activism must be more than symbolic, it must accomplish some real benefit for the American In­dian. The following statement, at­tributed to Deloria in Steiner's The New Indians, is an interesting disertation on the nature and meaning of Red Power: 
"Red Power will win. We are no 
longer fighting for physical survival. We 
are fighting for ideological survival. Our 
ideas will overcome your ideas. We are 
going to cut this country's whole value 
system to shreds. 
"It isn't important that there are only 

500,000 of us Indians. What is im­portant is that we have a superior way of life. We Indians will show this country how to act human. Someday this coun­try will revise its constitution, its laws, in terms of human beings, instead of property. If Red Power is to be a power in this country it is because it is 
ideological." 
Vine Deloria, Jr. was born in Martin, South Dakota, in 1933. He was raised on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation. Deloria's father, an Episcopal minister for 37 years, was a missionary who served 18 chapels on the reservation. 
Deloria's educational background is unusual for an American Indian. His last two years ofhigh school were spent at an eastern prep school and he holds degrees from Iowa State University, Augustana Lutheran Seminary (B.D.), and the University of Colorado (LL.B.). Once in Deloria's life he considered the ministry as a vocation and after a stint i~ the Marine Corps he entered the Augus­tana Lutheran Seminary (also called Lutheran School of Theology) at Rock Island, Illinois. 
Although Deloria later wrote that the 

years he spent at Augustana were "very 
happy" he was not ordained when he 
received his B.D. in 1963. In his first 
book, Custer Died For Your Sins, 
Deloria says he quit the idea of the 
ministry because he saw the frustrations 
of his father within the Episcopal 
Church and concluded the Church was 
totally irrelevant to Indian needs. 
In the Episcopal Church, Deloria 

observed, Indian clergymen were often 
shunted aside in favor of whites when it 
came time for promotion. "No other 
field of endeavor in America today," he 
later wrote, "has as much blatant racial 
discrimination as does the field of Chris­
tian missions to the American Indian 
people." 
(See page 30) 


Analysis of the proposed federal budget for the coming fiscal year must be viewed from two standpoints in order to grasp what it will really mean for the Indian people of America. 
The first standpoint is the definition of the term "Indians," and the second is the actual cuts or increases in the budget proposed to the Congress by President Nixon. 
The most basic viewpoint is that of the definition of terms. Indians have been permitting the federal government to define what constitutes an Indian, 
what constitutes and "Indian expendi­ture," and the meaning of the phrase "spent on." 
Four major facts emerge from a careful analysis of the new budget. 
First when the President's budget states that $1.45 billion will be spent on the approximately 500,000 reservation Indians and Alaska Natives, it is paten­tly false. At least one-third of the $1.45 billion is money from non-Indian agen­cies which is available to all Indians on the basis oftheir U.S. citizenship, not on the basis of their legal Indian identity. Many of the approximately 500,000 non-federally recognized Indians participate in these programs. 
Second, not all of the $1.45 million is spent to "support" Indians. A portion is actually spent "against" Indians, or to rectify past mistakes on the part of the federal government. For example, money to support the Justice Department staff which works against Indians before the Indian Claims Com­mission is included in the total figure, as are monies to support the work of the commission itself, and funds to support ministration which straightens out federal accounts of Indian money. Another portion is money spent by the 
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to build dams on Indian reservations or to pay Indians for lands taken. None of this is money "spent on" Indians. 
Third, some of the monies included in the $1.45 billion are monies belonging to Indian tribes themselves, deriving either from claims payments or tribal revenues which the U.S. holds in trust. The figure for this area in Nixon's new budget is $190,000,000. 
Fourth, that money spent by the federal government on Indians which comes from non-Indian programs, such as the Veterans Administration or Labor's Manpower Training, is by no means money spent on Indians as In­dians, but on tax-paying citizens who have fought in the wars of this country. 
The result of this redefining of terms is to leave about half of the $1.45 billion which can accurately be said to be spent "on" Indians. This is the money which will go to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Indian Health Service and the National Council on Indian Op­portunity. 
The second standpoint from which the new budget must be analyzed is that of increases and decreases in "Indian" expenditures and "citizen" expen­ditures. 
At first glance, it would appear the BIA will get a $50 million increase. But analysis shows the increase to be a puff of smoke. Cuts in education and welfare services are hidden by including the $20 million increase in payments on Alaska Native claims. Increases in resource management are due to the transfer of 


IND/AN VOICE 15 
A you can see from these examples, Bob Maldonado, or 
h-~wan, has a unique, almost haunting style. Though he ~on iders his specialty textile fabric design, he also produces Jewelry, graphics and ceramic sculpture. Now a Junior at the Rhode Island School of Design, he received a scholarship to 
th

at chool in addition to a grant from the Yakima agency. 
After completing High School on the Yakima reservation, he attended the Institute of American Indian Arts in Santa Fe -~., for two years. He was part of an eight-man show of Indian artists at the Brooklyn, N.Y. museum and is a member of the Native North American Art Gallery in New 

d 

IND/AN VOICE 17 
h. work has been exhibited in a one­h ;e·F:Iendship House in Toppenish, 
. in 1969, he was awarded second
\nzona, . . . . H. k 
· in the Textile Design d1~is10n. f 1Aswo~ 
~ the 1972 July-August issue o rt zn 1 
hi degree, Ah-Swan plans to return to nd found a school of arts and cdraft_s. He ung Indians that art was once, an st111 can 
them gain appreciation of art relating to phe ays. "I want to enco~rage them to tic talents at an early age. 1111ai•• ,,-:imri ~equality of his work, which suffers greatly ,orr..,.,,-,,,au din black &white, we think he'll succeed. 

Look down upon me with your favor, Holy Mountain. I, the forest at your feet. Like a fountain soars a lofty chanting. in your caverns hear my speech. 
When the shining mist surrounds you my mind a freshly broken tree, I call the spirits of your creatures to a council of the free. 
Do you hear me, Holy Mountain? granite guardian of our peace. asking for your cunning power from the nature of the beast. 
I am writing, Sacred Mountain for the day of making feasts, with the sun upon your shoulder like a boulder burning bright · the night's High Priest. 
See me knocking at your window. this reflection on my face. a silhouette of mountain, great stone watcher over space. 


PAUL 
Flying Eagle's Se ,ret 

With the brilliant desert sun glinting on the flanks of his sturdy pony, Flying Eagle emerged from the shadows of t~e canyon and clambered up the mountam side. It was rough going, and every now and then he paused beside a giant
I b.

suagaro to make sure he was not emg followed. Eventually he rea hed his goal ... his secret hideout. This pecial place commandeered such an expansive view of the entire countryside th ,t anyone ap­proaching would be visible miles away. 
Thus he could continue to work in peace, with only an occasional sweep of his eyes across the foothills to ensure that his privacy was complete. Fleet One, his faithful pony, w, s more alert than a watch-dog and a whinny from her would be all the warning h · would need of any approaching horse1 an. . 
With a sigh of contentment Flymg Eagle seated himself on the lground with his back against the warm granite boulder. Carefully, from the inside of his buckskin jacket he drew the soft leather pouch. It was not decorated and anyone seeing it would never dream of the importance of its contents -to this Indian youth anyway. His brown eyes gleamed with determination as he set to work. 
As he worked his thoughts returned to the recent pony raid. H· had buried the pouch that time as he wbuld not risk its discovery had he left it in his jacket in his sleeping quarters. He k , ew full well it would have been found by the in­quisitive little fing~rs _of pis younger brother, who would hav~ delightedly revealed his secret to the 1 hole village. He had taken no chances on discovery, but had slipped away and buried it on 
A short story. 
the far side of the cornfield, where the large rocks were scattered nearby. He knew that not even the women had the strength to move the boulder he had used to cover the soft ground. With a tracker's skill he had removed all evidence of his being there. Now that the roundup of wild ponies was successfully completed, Flying Eagle was able to resume his task. 
His thoughts then centered on Brown Deer, the lovely maiden of his dreams. The memory of her gentle brown eyes and jet-black braids brought a thrill of fire to his blood. His eyes gleamed as he bent over his work with renewed vigor and concentration. Carefully and skillfully he manipulated the tools with which he was creating an ornament of such rare beauty and craftmanship. 
A whinny from Fleet One disturbed his revery. Quickly looking up he noticed coming across the plains in a cloud of dust the outline of a horse and rider. Carefully he scrutinized the horse and the rider astride it. He sensed immediately the urgency of their movements. Hurriedly Flying Eagle hid his precious pouch in a concealed crevice behind the giant rock. In another instant he was on Fleet One and had rapidly cantored around the side of the mountain so that his hideout would remain undiscovered. The round-about route led to the canyon to which he surmised the new-comer was headed. When he was far away enough from his original situation to give the impressi?n that he was coming from the opposite direction, he raced Fleet One to where he could overtake the intruder. 
Hearing the thud of approaching hoof-beats, the new-comer stopped and peered searchingly around him. When he spotted Flying Eagle he veered his pony and galloped to meet him. 
"What brings you here in such haste, my friend?" inquired Flying Eagle, when they approached within hailing dis­tance. 
"I bring news, Flying Eagle! Y must return home immediately. Yo father is very ill -he may be dying." 
Flying Eagle looked at his boyho friend in shocked disbelief. "How that be? He was well and full of vig yesterday, Red Feather!" 
"Yes, and this morning he was rid. with some others. Suddenly he gave sharp cry, and holding his chest, began to groan and fight for breath. W thought at first it was an arrow, there was no mark on him and no sign strangers around. The medicine was called and your mother sent me h to look for you." . 
"Oh so that is how you found t place! 'only my mother knows where· is. Now, you must promise me thaty will tell no one." 
Their ponies were swiftly covering the distance from the mountains to the mesa where the people sat in stoic patience around the Chiefs dwelling ho~se. Thundercloud had been a good chief, and although he was not dearly loved, he was greatly respected for his skill ~nd hunting ability. His enormous phys•ca: strength had been the source of almo~d legendary stories. These had been reto so frequently that Flying Eagle ~o longer listened to them. He knew that e was no true replica of his fath~~ Although fleet of fo?t, and s~illful w:he his bow and arrow, m wrestlmg ~n! to other manly games he had fatle 


. •ng applause which was 
. the nngi d. 

a 111eve the ears of the young In ian weet to thinker and planner, and 
mert He w;;e:s about what he would do h;ld manY e chief. 11 11e beca~hey slowed the pace of their 
oberlY they approached close 
· when . 

l,111e bserve the express10ns on 11 ught i;t~e people as they s~t around ,heface d A sense of anxiety came the our~yarE~gle. On the way home he ,er Flying rossed in his efforts to warn hJd been ehn~ not to divulge the secret of 
R,dFeate 1. • 
c; .d away Now the rea izat10n 
· h1 e-· 

hi h. that his father was old and 
ruck im . . . h h Id

1 the possibility t at e wou
,here was ,t Ii e much longer. . n They dismounted and slowly Flymg _ le made his way to the doorway en-E, 1 g His mother was near the 
,ranee. . b . fl h
nd clung to him ne y w en

doorwaYa . 
eted him. Thundercloud lay with

h g e 
e r · 11 H.
ed eyes on his bear-skm pa et. 1s

1
\ ed parchment-like skin was taut 

IC • l
"ith pain. Flying Eagle qmet y. sat ide his father. How long he remained hu in silent vigil he never knew. Dis­
t • b 
ma was his strongest emot10n ecause he had long dreaded the time when the hieftainship might pass on to him. His gentleness, inherited from his mother, 
seemed to him to be weakness in com­parison with the bullish muscle-power his father had always been so proud to display. He had felt the contempt in his father's eyes when he failed to achieve success in some endeavor. His mother had always consoled him the best way she could, but he still felt so totally inadequate to take his father's place. 
Silently he watched the medicine man perform the ritual, and he quietlyjoined in with his own prayers to the Great Spirit. He really hoped his father would live. Suddenly the sick man uttered a deep groan as though summoning his spirit back from the other world. His eyes flickered open and gradually awareness returned to them. He murmered a request for water and Flying Eagle hurried to lift the gourd to his lips. 
More and more he began to depend upon Flying Eagle, and before long their positions became somewhat reversed. The dependance and weakness of his father made Flying Eagle more self­reliant. When his father took him into his confidence regarding affairs of the tribe, this assurance grew. He began to understand more the reason for his father's insistence on strict self-dis­





amer1can indian arts 
acoma & santo domingo ePOTTERY 
navajo, zuni, hopi e JEWELRY eBLANKETS eKACHINA DOLLS monday-saturday 10 to 4 
IND/AN VOICE 19 

cipline; he recognized the value of his self-control. A weaker man would have succumbed to his physical incapacity, but his father looked upon it as a foe to be conquered. It was really his dogged determination which kept him alive. Although he was often in great pain, he would not complain and only his heavy breathing and labored movements revealed this. Gradually his strength returned and he was able to do more for himself. 
Finally the day came when Flying Eagle felt he could safely return to his secret hideout. It was difficult to con­vince his friends that he wished to be alone, but he managed to evade them eventually. 
He found the leather pouch where he had left it. Once again he began his task. While he worked he thought of his adored one. Brown Deer had been very considerate during his father's illness. Many times she had brought a pot of rich venison stew which she knew would delight the old chief. Of course Flying Eagle would taste it too, with great relish! Now he let his thoughts wander to the time when she would cook some just for him, from a deer he would shoot with his bow and arrow, just for her! 
• 

283 LORTON AVENUE (415 ) 348-0178 BURLINGAME, CA 94010 

~,· 200 beautiful accommodations, exciting entertainment in the Casino Theater, fine dining in the Cameo Res­taurant ... and warm, friendly hospitality in the true tradition of the West. 
JESSIE BECK'S 
.d 



·~ers1 e
t 

HOTEL·CASINO 

20 IND/AN VO/c.;E 
She seemed more attractive to him than ever before. His face flushed with emotion when he recalled the way his friend, Red Feather, was trying to court her. All the young men tried to win a shy glance or smile from her, but Red Feather seemed to be trying more than necessary. He could not blame him for being in love with her, and he was one of the best riders and an outstanding marksman. 
He knew Red Feather would laugh.at him if he knew what he were doing with such secrecy. Many times he had worked with Red Feather at the local arrowhead quarry. It was always a busy place, a place for camaraderie and man to man talk. The young men would relax from their labors by having a wrestling match, and here again Flying Eagle felt inadequate. Not that he was always defeated; his father had taught him too well for that. But it was his skill and not his strength which would bring him vic­tory. 
Then he thought of the ball games which were such a great event. He had been allowed to play with the older men because he was the chiefs son, but he could still hear the wild shouts of ac­claim when he managed to knock the small rubber ball through the ring on the wall of the ball court. He had been hoisted on the shoulders of the older men and was allowed to claim any clothing or jewelry from the spectators. He had not wanted anything except the necklace of beads made from sea-shells which Brown Deer wore around her ex­quisite neck. Around his own neck now the white beads looked good on his tanned skin. 
He began to feel elated. Soon his task would be complete. Carefully he put the finishing touches to his precious han­diwork. One careless blow with his flint knife could destroy weeks of painstaking effort. Slowly he drilled a tiny perforation through which he could thread the woven leather sinews he had saved from the last hunt. This had to be the most enduring substance he could find to match the ornament. He just knew Brown Deer would wear it every day. 
Finally his work was completed. He would take his gift to Brown Deer and prove his love for her. This token of his love she would always wear on her breast, above her heart, the symbol of her lover, Flying Eagle. 
His haste infected his Pon 

On he cantored, down the .
river t
Soon he could_ se_e her in the di rail She had been p1ckmg wild flow tan_ she carried with her load of ;r Which Flying Eagle rode up to her a 1 ~ew?Od swoop of his lithe brown body ~-f With
1 
on to the pony with him. ted h She relaxed in his arms 
a th
galloped on up to the summit of r knoll overlooking the river vallea It 
"Brown Deer, here is a little gift\ ha made for you!" Flying Eagle dre t love token from the leather pouch placed it in her hand. She caught~ breath at t~e exquisi_te beauty of craftsmanship. Never m her life had seen anything so beautiful. It wa atin stone-carved eagle with in outspread. Tiny notches indicated wing and tail feathers, and even the 
(See page 


IND/AN VOICE 21 


By Tom Richards, Jr. 
Alaska-(Special to
BANKS 
IR ' · · d

When President Nixon signe IP .)-w 92-203 on Dec. 18, 1971 , he PubbcdLad wait of 104 years by Alaska 
clu e a · 1 d 
. f r a settlement of their an
0
ue 

rship claims. . . . The atives once exercised domm10n 
r the J75 million acres of Ala_ska. I!l they continued to exercise this ~' ion until 1971 because of the
m10 . . f
ti ely sparse migrat10n o non-

ti e into the state. On the date of enactme~t of t_h~ im ettlement, Alaska Native_s relm­. hed for all time ownership and ditional subsistence usage to all but 
million acres of the state. 

The Alaska settlement has been the uccessfully lobbied piece of 
· lation in this country's history ofln­affairs. For better or worse, the ka Native Claims Settlement Act of . 18, 1971 is the last major land t between the U.S. government and aboriginal inhabitants of this coun­
on after I joined the staff of the undra Times in 1968, Editor Howard 
k gave me assignments which kept scrambling all over Alaska to cover a · ty of issues. One such issue ~ced in every town and village.Non­t! e are encroaching upon our land, t1 e were saying. 
hat was our land? We had no title, d d , only brief pronouncements in treaty with Russia which ceded ~ to the U.S. Aboriginal bitant~ "shall be protected" in the . f t~eir lands, it said. What legal 
• . did Alaska Natives have for mg ownership? We had Indian 
in the last century, there was a • of treaty signing with the 

ncan I d' 
lbtcd n ians of the continentalstates. And as fast as they were 

signed, they were violated. When ln­dians protested or fought back, this government invoked genocide as a solution to their complaints. 
But Manifest Destiny was deflated by the time settlers reached Alaska. This country was not pressed to exploit our resources, and who wants to live in Alaska anyway; so we weren't forced into treaties. But two oil companies made significant discoveries in Alaska in 1968. 
One announcement read: "BP Oil Corporation announces that its first well in its Prudhoe Bay acreage in Alas­ka, Put River No. 1, has discovered oil in porous sandstone below 8,000 feet. .. BP regards the information obtained so far from its first well as 'encouraginJ;.'" 
Encouraging! That is like saying the American people regarded the closing of World War II to be an interesting event. So, Alaska not only had gold, it possessed a wealth more genuinely ap­preciated by exploiters in this age. It had oil. 
Another rush was anticipated, but 
Alaska Natives had aboriginal claims 
blanketing the state. Here we were, 
60,000 (pre-enrollment) Natives sitting 
on 375 million acres of American soil, 
and there was no treaty. 
The United States government could 

not send an emissary from the Great 
Father to sign a hurried treaty and rush 
us on a long march to the Aleutians. 
We could not be massacred as in­

surrectionists because of a spirited 
speech from one of our leaders. The 
American people have been shedding 
tears of guilt for nearly 100 years 
because of this government's Indian 
diplomacy, or lack thereof, during the 
last century. Somebody had goofed. 
There was no treaty with Alaska's Es­

kimos, Inidans and Aleuts. And we, 
Natives, were laying claim to our land. It 
was the Age of Enlightenment in this 
country's dealings with its aboriginal 
inhabitants. In Alaska, a genuine Indian "problem" surfaced which could not be resolved in the traditional manner. 
The Alaska Native claims were sit­

ting squarely upon the most obvious 
blemish on the American dream of 
equal justice under law. While authors 
Vine Deloria Jr. and Dee Brown were 
admirably documenting the shameful 
events comprising America's Indian 
experience, here was the biggest land 
battle of the century, and the 
government could not dispatch a blood­
thirsty general to lead a cavalry assault. 
It was poetic justice. The country 

wept for its sins against Indian people, 
and up jumps a huge Indian land fight in 
which Indians ever had the best chance 
of winning. 
This may aptly describe the merits, 

and the fairest solution, of claims filed 
by Alaska Natives. But, in order to 
understand what events were actually 
significant, and why they occurred, one 
must appreciate the full force of each of 
the basic ingredients that blended 
together to create a settlement. 
Unfortunately, at the time, there were 

those who would perpetuate the 
traditional means of resolving Indian is­
sues. For example, I recall the comment 
of Rep. John Saylor, R-Penn., during 
hearings before the U.S. House Interior 
Affairs Committee. 
My staff, he said, has researched this 

country's land transactions with Indian 
tribes. We have found that we paid In­
dians an average of50 cents per acre and 
I suggest that to pay Alaska Natives 
more than that amount may be unfair to 
other tribes with whom we have already 
settled . 
Choosing the classic game ofchess for 

an analogy, try to imagine the Alaska 
Native population as an individual 
player challenging a half-dozen grand 
masters simultaneously, and not being 
able to afford losing any of the games. 
Even an analysis of events after the fact 
is a difficult undertaking for this writer. 
(See page 29) 




Scouting Magazine 
• 1ed from sent of the author. 

The Indian and the Buffalo suffered similar fates at the hands of the whiteman. 
the 5 000 Indians who ::igin 1867 f ~r peace talks on the 
of Medicine Lo~ge Creek was the ·trant Kiowa chief Sath~nta, wh,o roly opposed_the w 1te mans 
t be on the plams. 
thi council, convened _in_southern by a peace comm1ss10n from 
•nton, D.C., Satanta moved from mp to those ofthe Comanches, the 
Apaches, the Arapahos and nne , ticking off reasons why the tribes should not settle on 
tions in Indian Territory. kill my' buffalo," he said over 
o er, hinting darkly that the and settlers soon would an­. t the magnificent animals that 

· ed food, shelter, raiment-even I-for the freewheeling Plains In-
Hrdl anyone, white or red, took · aming seriously. The Indians the buffalo were magically u d in limitless quantities in a tic cavern hidden somewhere in t reaches of the Llano Estacada, miarid Staked Plain region of and ew Mexico. The white men that the shaggy beasts always had numerous on the plains as coun­blades of prairie grass. The 0 tableland lying east of the Mountains, from Mexico to a had always been one great big 
pa ture. 
ry pring a seemingly inexhaus­thupplY-the Indians said it was Lian urplus from the cave beneath 0 Estacada -moved northward 
annual m· .
th igrat10n. Thousands t~u ands of buffalo would
0 ta ; ::rt_h clear to the horizons. 
1
Indian indmgs_ fell on deaf ears. treaties eluding the Kiowa chief, 

peace c • .
nim 0 mm1ss10ners were ous. In addition to promising 

annuities to feed and clothe the tribes, they granted liberal off-reservation hun­ting rights-on lands the Indians had regarded as theirs for hundreds ofyears. In return the Indians agreed to abandon their free way· of life, to live on reservations and withdraw all op­pos1t10n to the construction of railroads-just a formality since the Union Pacific already had pushed its tracks across southern Nebraska and into Cheyenne, Wyo. These ribbons of steel were to deal more misery to the In­dians than they realized, and their coming heralded the beginning of the end to the American bison-a name seldom ifever used by frontiersmen such as William F. Cody. 
Cody was employed as a meat hunter for still another railroad, the Kansas Pacific. To feed the railroad's construc­tion workers, in 17 months he killed nearly 4,300 buffalo, earning in the process $500 a month, the lifelong nickname of Buffalo Bill and a permanent niche in American history. 
In 1868 the Kansas Pacific began selling tickets to sportsmen who would slaughter a few buffalo, then hop back on the train to return to the East. Some passengers didn't even leave their seats. They simply started banging away when the train passed through a herd. Nearly always the meat was left to rot. These senseless killings infuriated the Indians, and periodically they would vent their anger on small groups ofwhite men. But aside from driving the herds back from­the railroad rights-of-way, this merry diversion hardly seemed to dent the sup­ply. 
By this time the buffalo had been divided into what came to be called the Northern Herd and the Southern Herd, a trend that had been evident for years. The division apparently began in 1849, when tremendous numbers of men followed the Platte River of southern Nebraska westward toward the gold fields· of California. At first these 
IND/AN VOICE 23 
w;, 

trailblazers could kill all the buffalo needed for food without stepping offthe trail. But before long not a buffalo could "be found within shooting distance ofthe Platte. When the Union Pacific was built along this river, the buffalo were divided forever-with the greatest numbers living south ofthe Platte in the 
Southern Herd. 
Despite the separation, the animals were plentiful. Steamboats on the upper Missouri would stop and wait when a herd wanted to cross the river. In the frontier cowtowri of Wichita, choice buffalo humps sold for three cents a pound. In May of 1871 Col. Richard I. Dodge traveled along the Arkansas River in central Kansas from old Fort Zarah to Fort Larned, a distance of 35 miles, through a huge herd moving northward. 
"At least 25 miles ofthat distance," he later recalled, "was through one immense herd," adding that it took this bunch 5 days to pass a given point. 
At approximately the same time that Colonel Dodge picked his way through a herd later estimated to contain 4 million buffalo, industrialists in the East suddenly discovered that buffalo leather, for many purposes, was unexcelled. One firm ordered several thousand hides, and almost overnight a strange breed of men, the professional hide hunter, was born. Armed with recently perfected long-range breechloading rifles, hide hunters could sneak to within 200 or 300 yards of a heard and pump lead into it as long as the herd was within range. Not since gold fever had gripped the restless in '49 had so many Americans flocked to one section of the country. The railroads brought hunters in by the trainload, carrying buffalo hides on the return trip. 
On Sept. 23, 1872, tracks ofthe Santa Fe Railway reached the Kansas hamlet of Dodge City, which quickly became the headquarters from which the extermination of the Southern Herd was to be directed. By December there were at least 2,000 hide hunters em­ployed in the buffalo-killing industry. The hide of a full-grown bull-which would stand six feet at the shoulders and weight 1,800 pounds-brought from 75 cents to $2.50, depending on its con­dition. Good winter robes commanded from $4 to $6. Salted tongues, about the only meat saved, earned hunters a quarter and sold for 50 cents in the east. By January 1, 1873, the Santa Fe had hauled 43,000 hides from Dodge. A few persons started to wonder if Satanta had been right when he predicted the whites would kill off the buffalo. 

"Each hide counts a buffalo slain," the editor of one frontier newspaper wrote when he learned how many hides were shipped from Dodge, "and 43,000 hides in three months convey an idea of ma·gnificent butchery that forecasts the speedy extinction of the prairie denizen." 
The editor's arithmetic appears logical, but it wasn't. The 43,000 hides probably represented at least 150,000 dead buffalo, maybe more. Experts like Colonel Dodge estimated that for every hide that reached the market, from two to five animals were killed, because most of the hide men weren't frontiersmen and they ruined many of the hides during the skinning process. 
The "magnificent butchery" con­tinued unabated. As buffalo became harder to find, better organization was necessary. The normal hunting party was made up of the hunter, four skinners and a cook. Buffalo usually were shot in the morning after they had been to water and were lying down to rest. The hunter, using two guns and a forked stick or tripod as a support, often killed 50 animals without moving from his track; 200 a day was a normal kill-for a skinner could rip the hides from about 25 buffalo in a day. 
William Blackmore, a London sportsman who traveled for 40 miles along the Arkansas River in the fall of 1873, reported: "There was a continual line of putrescent carcasses, so that the air was rendered pestilential and off en­sive to the last degree. The hunters had formed a line of camps along the banks of the river and had shot down the buf­falo, night and morning, as they came to drink. In order to give an idea of these carcasses, it is necessary to mention that I counted 67 on one spot not covering four acres." 
This slaughter was repeated on the Platte, the Smoky, the Pawnee, the Republican, the Solomon, the Walnut and the Saline Rivers, and their tributaries. 
"Every drink of water, every mouthful of grass," said a Cavalry of­ficer who witnessed the orgy, "is at the expense of life, and the miserable animals, continually harassed, are driven into localities far from their natural haunts, anywhere to avoid the increasing pursuits." 
Voices crying out against the slaughter became more voluble. In 1874 a bill was introduced in the Texas Legislature to protect buffalo. However, Gen. Phil Sheridan, the Civil War hero, appeared before the lawmakers and pointed out that buffalo were the commissary of the Indians, in­sisted that the extermination was neces­sary to our colonial expansion. 

"One party of 16 hunters killed 28,000 buffalo last summer," the United States Congress was told. That was an average of 1,750 buff a lo per hunter, slain at a season when meat was impossible to save and worthless as food. 
But it was too late for tears. Nothing 
could save the vast herds of buffalo. The 
Kansas Pacific, Union Pacific and 
Santa Fe during a 3-year period ( 1872­
74) shipped to the east 1.3 million hides, 
6.7 million pounds of meat and 32 million pounds of buffalo bones-used mostly for fertilizer. Considering the wasted animals, probably 4.3 million buffalo-the bulk of the Southern Herd-were killed in these 3 years. Congress talked· of interfering, but didn't. The buffalo melted like snow beneath a hot summer's sun. At the close of the hunting season of 1875, the rem­nant of the great Southern Herd fled south toward the Llano Estacado. 
The Dodge City-based hunters 
headed south also, despite the fact that 
the Medicine Lodge treaty forbade them 
to do so. More hunters made their head­
quarters at Fort Worth, Tex. From 1876 
to 1878 there were 300,000 additional 
skins marketed by 1,500 hunters, who 
for all practical purposes wiped out the 
Southern Herd. 
The Northern Herd -which 
numbered about 1.5 million-survived 
a few more years on the high plains of 
the Dakotas, Montana and Wyoming. 
In 1880, summer hunt began in the 
north, and the herd had all but vanished 
by the end of the 1882-83 season. And in 
another 3 years Indians in Canada were 
starving because most of the buffalo 
there were gone. 
A few wary buffalo continued to exist here and there. In 1887 a Texas rancher discovered a herd of about 200 in the Panhandle between the two forks of the C~na?ian River. His Part lei 
this time the buffalo We Y 
the heads brought $50 apr~ so 
$200. •ece, Teddy Roosevelt, huntin . of 1889 in I?aho, was de: when_ he tramed his sight: certamly must have been a 
. mo 
of the survivors. "Mixed with the eager ex . 
the hunter," noted Roosev: half-m~lancholy feeling as I t, these bison, themselves Part 
remnant of a doomed a vanished race." And vanish they nearly did 
there ~ere fewer than 1,000 · the Umted States. At this point dividual~ _and the federal go began givmg long-withheld p 
Happily the buffalo neverva · there probably are 20,000 in Canadian and American her: Naturalists estimate there m been 70 million buffalo in America in the l 700's. By I were no buffalo east of the M' but 40 million in the 3 millio miles of open plains. It wasn't buffalo were nearly gone attempts to count them were revelations were appalling, b end the hide hunters showed no the buffalo. 
"Pity?" a puzzled, veteran hi said in 1930, a half century afi kill. "No, I did not feel it. It was with me. I had money invested. not butcher the · buffaloes, t many other hunting outfits a that would, so I killed all I co 
"I and the thousands of other hunters had no high-minded slaughtering the buffalo. We his hide and the money it wo but yet the buffalo hunter was pioneer who cleared the way steer and cowboy, the settler plow, the church and sch civilization.... When we ki buffalo, the Indian's com · gone, he was starved into su went upon his reservation. The never could have been settled SO. the buffalo was here to support dian." 
The wily old Kiowa prophe~ was one Indian not starved mission but he fared no better buffalo.' In and out of whit~ because of continued res15 finally leaped to his d_eath i~ !d Texas prison, prefenng sutct in which buffalo no longer r 
-DICK 



Jtlt{ 

MAI L TO  ORDER FORM  
hc\nbscnaBBJe  Please send me ____ copy (copies) of this reprint edition of Queen of the Woods by Simon Pokagon @ $5.95 per copy.II enclose $ ________  
Route 2, Box 285 Berrien Springs, Michigan 49 10 3 1~~n~dents please add 4 percent sales tax.  NAME_______________________I STREET____________________I  


IND/AN VOICE 25 

Although there is a net mcrease in revenue sharing. Indian tribes and com­
BIA appropriations, about $23 million munities are receiving about $6 million will be chipped away in the area ofsocial in general revenue sharing in February. programs. And while appropriations for They will be receiving such checks Indian health facilities has been cut by henceforth on a quarterly basis. about $3 million (with about $48 million -Karen Ducheneaux & needed for new facilities, modernization Richard La Course and repair), the appropriation request for Indian Health Services has gone up a In the tangled maze of the annual net of about $4 million. federal budget, these terms and 
Finally, the really good news in 1973 definitions are useful to know: will be the money going to tribes and In­FISCAL YEAR-Year running dian communities through general from July 1 to June 30 and desiKnated 

. . .
....··························~························································ 

QUEEN of the WOODS 
by Simon Pokagon 


This book was written at the the story of the Indian in the white end of the nineteenth century by-an man's world seeing the old way of eloquent and educated Potawatomi life being destroyed by the numbers, Indian who lived his entire life near society and whisky of the new dom­the site of the little cluster of bark inant race. lodges where he was born. It begins 
Simon Pokagon (1830-1899)
the story of the young Indian 

was the son of Leopold Pokagon,
couple Simon and Lonidaw, their 

one of the last great Potawatomi 
courtship and marriage, and becomes 

chiefs. 

For many years copies of the original editions have been difficult to obtain ... seldom on the open shelves of 
5.95 

libraries, an object for book searchers, prized by owners. Now this re­print in hard covers, cloth bound (5 x 7, 220 pages) is ready at a popular price. The original type and format are exactly reproduced as they were set up in a little print shop in Hartford, Michigan, nearly 75 years ago. 
In these times of revived interest in the American Indian, Simon Pokagon, through his book, still has much to say to his white brothers. 
(Norma/ tr d 

a e courtesies extended to dealers.)
•••• CITY ________STATE_____ZIP_ ___ _ 


• Jewelry 
MODEL SHOES 
American Indian Arts and Crafts 
• Pottery 
• Moccasins 
a 
Bill's Model Shoe Shop 2945 College Avenue Berkeley, California 


by the calendar year in which it ends. 
IMPOUNDMENT-Th 

The new fiscal year is called fiscal year the executive branch to s e reJi 
1974 (FY1974) because it begins July 1, cleared for spending bPend 
1973. 
through appropriation le;. r~,,
AUTHORIZATION -Basic legisla­
definite setting aside 0 r mo is_ at,o,a.

tion passed by the U.S. Congress which . 'J nzess
they wzll not be spent . 0 t 

sets up a federal program or agency . . . until
authonzatzon expires at the endfor a set period of time or indefinitely. 

cal year. ofa Such legislation sometimes set a ceiling 
_RECISSION-A required ac . 
on the amount of money that can be wzthdraw the authority which Ila,,

requested in a fiscal year. . . ,r ma 
appropnatzon oJ money necess 
BUDGET AUTHORITY -Au­
SPECIAL REVENUE sn~ii.
thority provided by the Congress, main­
-Money formerly appropriate
ly in the form of appropriations which fund federal programs will in d 

allows federal agencies to incur obliga­. d' l stead
gzven zrect y to state and localgo tions to spend or lend money. Most ments for them to spend as the "'­

budget authority is voted each year . S . l Ywe:
mme. pecza revenue sharing .
by the Congress. 
tio~ will be p roposed Jor each of tit,

APPROPRIATION-Once a vanous programs program is passed by Congress, separate GENERAL Rf!V:ENU~ SHARJ Glegislation has to be passed to fund it. 
-The act of gzvmg, wuh no 
st · This is called appropriation legislation. 
attached, federal monies for 
OUTLAYS-Actual money spent by 

state and local governments. l an agency. For example, although the 
tribes and communities which "perfi Indian Health Service appropriation for 
a substantial governmental June· the current year was $172,748,000, 
are included in this program. President Nixon impounded about $4. 7 
TRUST FUNDS-Funds co/le million ofthat, leaving a balance of$16­
and used by the federal governmentJo,8,040,000. The end of the year net 
specific purposes. Included in thee obligated balance was $1,176,000. This 
tribal revenues, claims money, mo means the actual money spent by / HS donated to the federal government/a,during the current year will be only $16­

use by Indians. Even though thesefi 6,864,000 estimated funds. There is a belong to Indians, appropriat difference of over $5.8 million between 
legislation must be enacted before t the money Congress appropriated and 
can be spent in behalf of Indians. the money outlaid. 
}4t{ 



szszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszsz 
Next Edition 

¦TROUBLE 
AT AWKWESASNE 

¦ 
WITH THE LAST INDIANS OF CUBA 

¦ 
NO INDIANS LEFT BUT ME 

¦TO 
BE INDIAN IN LOS ANGELES 

¦CAMP 
COHESION 




plus more... 



IND/AN VOICE 27 

Oh Brother!! 

\ I 

We are all brothers, whether we are from Alaska or Florida, Ontario or California, Mexico City or the Arctic Islands; whether we are Eskimo, Seminole, Iroquois, Chicano or Metis; whether we are rural or urban, rich or poor, modern or traditional. 
Lei's gel lo know our brothers better. 
Our way is by subscribing to Native publications across the continent Native publications such as The Native People, published by the Alberta Native Communications Society. The Native People is Canada's first Native WEEKLY newspaper , and one of the best. It covers the Native scene in detail, at all levels with compassion and understanding, but with comp~lling honesty.
Zuni Sunrise Call 
The Native People 

c/o Alberta Native Communications Society 
11427 -Jasper Avenue 
Edmonton 11, Alberta 
Canada 
I have enclosed $5. 00 in . cash 

. money order 
. cheque for one year 's subscription to The Native Peop[e, newspaper . NAME: ................... ......................................................... . ADDRESS: ........................................................................ . 
Zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . City or Town ........................ 
PHONE: 

If applicable: 111 Organization, Business or Government Department ............ . 
. . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . .. Title .... ................................. . 





our feathers, doing our victory dance and chantin 
songs. In pride we walk away peacefully into then g Viet dawn. Secretary of the Interior Rogers Morton statement that we do not represent Indian pernaf e understand that he is not an Indian. Jack A Washington Merry-Go-Round informs us that th;{/SOn family homestead rests on land stolen from the D 1 What does a man such ~s this know about lndia~s;w 
Mr. Morton would hke us to ~~ r~calcitrant tro makers. But he knows we have no aff1hat1on with any t u~ 
radicalism like communism or facism, nor any tie-i orei_ any other divergent group within our country. Wens first people, and our elder's blood pumps through ou are. This land was given to us by the Great Spirit and we~;: 
spearhead of a movement of grassroots people, who ha suffered at the hands of bureaucrats. We fight so that w 
continue to exist. We fight so that our children will~ good health to continue the journey back to our Indian 
and our proper place in nature's plan. We are the only a 
Indians, and we shall be Indians always. 
~ -OLEDO 


28 IND/AN VOICE 
A A A A A A A A A A A 
A 
A A A 
A 
e 
_. ~ 

• Indian Herbs, Roots & Medicine• 0 Peyote Fans & Gourds 0 • Zuni Jewelry*Navajo Jewelry • 0 Western Wear & Boots 0 • Indian Magazines & Newspapers• 
Many other articles to choose from. 

Sundries &Indian Store 
110 W. 66-Gallup, New Mexico Phone 505-863-9735 
A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
eA 

:szszszszszszszszszszszsz 


was the problem oi foret?0st umber of distinct ethnic 
r niz1ng a n (not entirely singular) 
. for a . r . 

up Add state and local_ po itics, urpose. rtics national politics, and
I

ion~l po tio~al political situation. 
.. interna , . . 
1

h in this governments po_1cies fhroW nservation and nat10nal 

•ard_ co reas not entirely ignoring r at10n a ' h
h wish to change t em. h e w_do energy: the demand for it as 
on I er d . I . 
means employe m ocatmg

11 a the
d transporting energy reso~rces. n d the existence of a national 
P n ~r ce as it sits in troubled balance 
n c1en , . d ... ith a ad history of_ Ian fafcqu~s~10nh. nd top everythmg . o w~t t e him of powerful men m tk~e d~fferent nches of government, ta mg mto ac­t the resourcefulness of lesser of­~anl in J·ealously guarded fiefdoms. 
I I . I . f f
atters were not entire y m avor o 

h laska Natives at !he onset_ of !he nd claim~ battle. Native orgamzat10n me about because of the loss of 
ditional Na~ive lands and the threat 
of further land .1oss. The story of what has happened to nd claims filed by .the Tanacross 
illager is the most blatant example of th greed of a state and of the anguish u ed ·by federal "protection" ofNative 
ri ht . 
Chief Andrew Isaac, tribal leader of h nited Crow Band of Athabascan Indian , battled the state, the Bureau of Land Management, and the Interior partment over the nearly 500,000 re occupied by his people near 
T nacross. 
The Tanacross claim has been . ored by the federal government since 1 a originally filed in 1917. When the 
laim was reasserted in 1950 the Int rior. Department again declided to e action. The tate began to select lands and 
o r t· b. . ' 
a ive O Ject10ns selections en-


om ' 
pa a Tanacross graveyard. The te even offered tracts of Tanacross 
nd 
at Lake George for sale as vacation · rt during the New York World's 
Ir. 
igration to urban for 

u tion a d areas 
. . n employment op­

rtunities h . 
nacr ~s so decimated the 
O
l s Indians that Chief Isaac's

Pe, who one · 
Ill rior AI e occupied much of · • aska, may be restricted to •on of as littl h
u h . e as t ree townships obb~ry lnSlanc~s of outright land or · . _Provided impetus for
nization of . . 


iation . atives mto regional as-ration_ and mto a statewide Native 
op right 1972 
TOM RICHARDS, Jr. 

b 

IND/AN VOICE 29 


101n our ••• 
$25.00 
CLUB 

. 
If you 'd like to help us meet our production costs join our $25.00 Club. Membership en­titles you to personal satisfaction in knowing you've helped-that is the Indian way. 

. 
Our history is colorful and vibrant and we want to share our heritage with the rest of the world. We believe this work is important; Indians need to be heard today as never before. 

. 
The directors, management and staff of In­dian Voice are all Indians. We're a non-profit organization dedicated to presenting the true Indian viewpoint in America. 

. 
Support us if you can. Ask your friends to become members. Our voice will be a little louder. 


Deloria's first two books are full of 
material on Indian religion and 
organized Christianity but perhaps his 
most acid remark on the white man's 
religion can be found in Steiner's The 
New Indians: 
"Religion is an intellectual abstrac­tion to the white man. It's all in their minds. Religion is something they talk about. It's not spiritual to them. They hold it out there, and study it. It's not something they feel in their heart. Religion, to the Indian, is in his heart. He feels it. 
The Indian didn't talk about his religion because he didn't have to. He lived it. The white man has lost his soul. But he is so small minded that he has confused his soul with God." 
In view of his strong background in theology, this writer asked him what his ~oncept of religion was. "I think religion ~s most meaningful," he responded, "as 1t relates to a particular group of people on a particular piece of land." Like Palestine, for instance? "Exactly." 
The last two sentences of Deloria's statement refer to the "God is dead" school of theology, popular in the sixties. With statement in mind, Deloria created a rather provocative pun for a bumper strip slogan: GOD IS RED. 
In view ·of his strong background in theology, this writer asked him what his concept of religion was. "I think religion is most meaningful," he responded, "as it relates to a particular group of people on a particular piece of -land." Like Palestine, for instance? "Exactly." 
After graduating from Augus­tana,Deloria was hired by the United Scholarship Service, in Denver, Colorado, to develop a program to get scholarships for American Indian students in eastern preparatory schools. Deloria worked for the USS for a year with some success but in 1964 a major event occured in his life that would reshape his entire future. In Custer Died For Your Sins, Deloria tells what happened: 

"In August of 1964 I went to Sheridan, Wyoming, to meet a teacher from Exeter to show him around the All American Indian Days celebration there. Meeting in conjunction with that celebration was the annual convention of the National Congress of American Indians. I wandered around the Convention naively, trying to get in­troductions for my teacher friend with some of the tribal chairmen attending the convention. 
"The NCAI was undergoing one ofits periodic purges and was looking for a new Executive Director. More of a pawn than an active candidate, I ended the week as the new director." 
Deloria later wrote that while serving as Executive Director of the National Congress of American Indians he learned more about Indian affairs in three years than he did in thirty years spenc on the reservation. In· his third book, Of Utmost Good Faith, Deloria gives a vivid definition of Indian affairs: 
"A United States general once characterized an Indian reservation as a piece of land, surrounded by thieves. Imagine also, if you will, a rather gooey glob of inertia-bound career bureau­crats surrounded by well intentioned do-gooders who flit in and out of this mess with complete misunderstanding hut the best of motives. 
"Record all of this in the special esoteric language of the academic com­munity in which footnotes become the key to understanding and you have a fair characterization of Indian affairs. Now sprinkle liberally with legal phrases and pilot projects presided over by tribal councils that change every two years and you have it." 

As Deloria assumed the role of Executive Director he realized the financial situation of the NCAI was drastic. After several trying years, Deloria restored the NCAI to solvency and increased its membership. In 1967 Deloria entered the University of Colorado School of Law. He realized that in spite of the monumental legal problems facing American Indians there were almost no Indian lawyers. 
Almost immediately, Deloria found himself continuously occupied with one project or another. He worked with the National Office for the Rights of the In­digent and served on the U.S. Board of Inquiry on Hunger and Malnutrition. As Executive Director of the NCAI, Deloria cooperated with Stan Steiner while the latter wrote a book on the Red Power movement. In 1968, The New In­dians was published and Vine Deloria, Jr., emerged one of its leading characters. 
During this time, Deloria decided to do some writing of his own. His articles appeared in such publications as the New York Times Magazine and Playboy. To date he has produced three books, one of which was a bestseller. 
Custer Died For Your Sins, hit the American reading public with the brilliance and velocity of a lightning bolt. Published by the Macmillan Com­pany in 1969, the book Deloria called "an Indian Manifesto", became, in the words of the publishers, "an overwhelming critical and 
success." 
"A good book," said the N 
Book Review, "not only ab · 
and their troubles but abou:ut 
troubles." Pete Hamill in the~ 
fost called Custe~,Died For y. 
a hell of a book, while the 
Post-Dispatch felt that the Si 
" 1 . d . Wo
an exp os1ve an articulate sta Perhaps one of the ma· Custer Died For Your Sins 1.1° 
. h I d. s s 
wit n 1ans and non-India 
the fact that Deloria seems to~ 
t~e loAngffr~cognized boundaries 
dian . aus. With a sharp, 
sardomc sword, Deloria slices 
the most enduring mythol 
Western Civilization and 
Society. 
. "True democracy," he writes 
first chap~er, •~was mo.re p 
among Indian tnbes in pre-Col 
days than it has been since." 
also notes, for those who have 
thought about it, the fact that 
Indians do not share the E 
background of their white con 
~f f ~udalism, the Reformation, 
tiamty or the Magna Carta. He 
that "the Apache were not at 
mede" nor did the Cherokee 
English common law. "No tri 
concludes, "has an emotiona~ 
cal, or political relationship to 
another continent and age." 
In a chapter devoted to the la treaties between the United Sta the various Indian tribes Deloria out that America "has yet to k Indian treaty or agreement des fact that the United States gov signed over four hundred such and agreements with Indian tri then proceeds to cite specific e of how the United States hon treaty commitments to the Deloria then makes this comm American history: 
"America has always been a tly imperialistic world power grasping for economic control weaker nations. 
"The Indian wars of the past rightly be regarded as the first wars of American history. As th~ States marched across this con was creating an empire by foreign conquest just as Eng France were doing in India an~ Certainly the war with Me imperialistic, no more or less wars against the Sioux, Apacb and Y akimas. In every case the 8 identical: land." 

chapter about . the Dfolrc~d 

f Indian tnbes, e ona 0.?w~en a policy is used ~s a -~rves. f e cultural confrontat10n, 
.,.,..-to ore f . 
pohn underlying weakne~s o society tbCOt e No society which has rea1 · appa~ent. lues need rely on force for 
_..1 1asung va . ,, ~ opagation. .
tbelf pr t r called "Anthropologists 
In a c~:pf~iends", part of which has and 0 th . Playboy, Deloria makes appeared hinopological observations of 
""e ant r . . h" b 
... cademic community m is est 

~n-~n-cheek style. ~hapt~ VDo~ t~e ~k is concerned with w at 1~ ~:ma "M·ssionaries and the Re ig10uscalls !, In other chapters Deloria 
uum. . b"
"th such provocative su ~ects as

dells WI . " "I d"
ment Agencies, n ian -Govern,, "The Red and the Black," 
Humor, . L d h" ,,
'1be Problem of Indian ea ers ip, Indians and Mode~n Socie~y,"_,and "A Redefinition of Indian Affairs. . 
In chapter after chap!er Delona examines aspects of Amencan _cult~re and doctrine humorously disectm_g them with his pen. The bo?k is intelligently written and some of it may be difficult for even college students to understand. Having heard this com­plaintabout the book from students and ults, I confronted Deloria. I pointed t he brought in a great deal of ckground concerning Western 
Civilization and Christian tradition, and the level of knowledge required to understand the text was high. Did he · tend for this work to be read by the "rank and file" Indian? 
o," he replied, "the book was not 
·«en for the reservation Indian but as basic source document for those ac­ly concerned about Indian Affairs." _nI note_d the last 3 chapters convey 1mpress1on he aimed the work at liege Y?uths he replied, "Absolutely. It aimed at those Indians in the liege, the young activists and the 
urban Indians." _Deloria's second book, We Talk, You 1..:0tn, ~as published by Macmillan in 
·This book_ la,c~s the vim and vigorthe fi~st but 1t 1s mteresting reading. lhes_is of We Talk, You Listen is an fj ration of a chapter in Custer Died Your Sins entitled "Indians in 
odcrn Soc· t " I · 
. 1e y. n this chapter ~ expounded the idea white t Ta~ns are be~inning to tribalize. In A-'. You Listen he writes: 
"'11Cncan · 
· . society is unconsciously1nd•an. Moods, attitudes and 
are h · '

19ecomi c angmg. People are " :-, more aware of their isolation .1 ~!~ey continue to worship the in lVidualist who needs no one. 
The self-sufficient man is casting about for a community to call his own. The glittering generalities and mythologies of American society no longer satisfy the need and desire to belong." 
dreams creep about me 
i fear sleep i sit late under the moon before the fire 
suddenly i wake cold dark i have great fear it is only a dream 
it is only another dream i tell myself and stir the fire sweat pours down my back 
i await the sun the forest is still as death dreams creep about me 
i must go to a shaman and speak my dreams aloud then he will kill them 
my eyes burn the day will be long there is work to do. 
hailstorm 
now the angry god sends ice like stones which bounce in the grass which hurt my head 
i lift my blanket i make a tent to hold the hailstones from my head 
my horse in the trees holds his head down i grieve for him he has no blanket 
the hail walks on singing the earth like a drum my horse lifts his bright eye the sun dries my blanket. 
-NORMAN H. RUSSELL 

t••··························
Deloria also makes a keen, perceptive observation about current social crisis: 
"There is no doubt in my mind that a major crisis exists. I believe, however, that it is deeper and more profound than racism, violence, and economic deprivation. American society is undergoing a total replacement of its philosophical concepts. Words are being emptied of old meanings and new values are coming in to fill the vacuum." 
"... Rather than face the situation head-on, people have preferred to con­sider social problems as manifestations 
IND/AN VOICE 31 

of a gap between certain elements of the national community. The most blatant example of this attitude is to speak of the "generation gap." Other times it is categorized as a racial problem -the white racist power structure against the pure and peace-loving minority groups. We know that this is false. In those programs where blacks have dominated they have been as racist against Indians as they claim whites have been against them" 
Deloria sees the trend toward In­dianess as the salvation of American society and the existence of mankind. Indeed, he makes a terrifying prediction based on his observations about America. "This much is certain," he writes, "at the moment there is not the slightest chance that mankind will survive the next half century." At the conclusion of his chapter called "The Artificial Universe" Deloria declares: 
"The ultimate conclusion of 
American society will be that even with 
respect to personal safety it was much 
safer and more humane when Indians 
controlled the whole continent. The 
only answer will be to adopt Indian 
ways to survive. For the white man even 
to exist, he must adopt a total Indian 
way of life. That is really what he had to 
do when he came to this land. It is what 
he will have to do before he leaves it 
once again." 
In March, 1970, Deloria made a 
speech before the First Convocation of 
American Indian Scholars at Princeton 
University entitled "The Implications of 
the 1968 Civil Rights Act in Tribal 
Autonomy." In his introduction, 
Deloria noted tribal govenments did not 
fully understand the 1968 Civil Rights 
law, or their tribal treaty rights. The 
upgrading of tribal courts and tribal 
council knowledge of their people in all 
aspects, was "extremely necessary." 
This was the opportunity for Indian 
scholars, he pointed out, to combine all 
their disciplines and help develop Indian 
common law, "tribe by tribe, eventually 
on a national basis." 
Deloria's third book Of Utmost Good 
Faith, published in 1971 , appears to be a 
step in the direction of goals he es­
tablished in his Princeton speech. Of Ut­
most Good Faith is an anthology of 
treaties, congressional hearings and 
judicial rulings. It contains other 
significant historical and contemporary 
documents concerning the legal status 
of Indian tribes and individual tribal 
members. 
-ROBERT MEIGS 
]4IC 

Jl INDIAN VOICE ft U' now on the air! lf 
. 
IND/AN WORLD NEWS 

. 
TRADITIONAL MUSIC 

. 
INTERVIEWS 


O O QSan Francisco Bay AreaQ O O 
. KTAO fm 95 . 
•
los gatos, ca. 

WED. 12 noon to 1 .. KOME fm 98.5 . 
san jose, ca. 
SUN. 9:30 pm to 9:45 

0 0 0 0 Phoenix Area O O O O 
. KDKB fm 92.5 . 
phoenix, ariz. 
FRI. 6:30 pm to 6:45 
. Narrated by Spotted Bull . 
ATTENTION 

SUBSCRIBERS 
Change of Address? Zip Code Correct? 
We can assure prompt delivery of your maga­zine if we show the correct address and ZIP Code on your mailing label. (Postal regula­
tions require us to file addresses according to ZIP CODE.) If you move, be sure to 
Fill out and mail to: 

I IND/AN VOICE P.O. Box 2033, I Santa Clara, California 95050. 

.  
LI.I  
a:  
LI.I  
J:  
VI VI LI.I  0.. N  
0::  
C  
C  
<  
~  
LI.I  
z  
a:  
:)  
0  
.  
1­ 
z- 
a:  
0..  t­LLJ  
.  ~ z  ~ v,  ~ '-'  Si .,, I  



FUND RAISING DANCE -San Jose chapter of AIM is sponsoring a social dance featuring music by Red House, an all-Indian 10 piece band from Salinas . Singles, $1.50; Couples $2.50. Saturday, March 3, 1973, 9pm to I :30am at Story Road Recreation Hall, 1671 Foxdale Dr., San Jose, Ca. 
* * * 
MRS. RUTH BLANK, librarian, San Jose Indian Center, is seeking materials relating to the Indian occupation of Alcatraz Island. Items such as: Pictures, news clippings, private correspondence and printed matter would be highly ap­preciated. "The purpose is to centralize a historical collection for Indian scholars," Mrs. Blank says. "The collec­tion will be open and remain at the In­dian Center for future reference." Materials should be addressed to her at: Indian Center Library, 90 S. Second St., San Jose, CA 95113. 
* * * 
IV STAFF MMEMBER, Karen Ryan, pickets Bill Wacker's white-trader Arts & Crafts show held recently at the Santa Clara County Fairgrounds. Indians are quick to point out the event is neither sponsored, endorsed or sanctioned by any Native American group. "This show not only uses the American Indian to advantage, but insults the intelligence of concerned white people," a spokesman for AIM said. "This sort of profiteering must be stopped if Indian craftsmen are to obtain self-determination." Many of the so-called authentic artifacts are known to be manufactured by non-In­dian hobbyists. 

QUARTERLY INDIAN FAIR 
the San Jose Indian Cen;esrpo~l 
f. A & Wl}
irst rts Crafts Show at M' School. "Indians from the e~t. Area ~ill be ~epresentedandasc 
1
commit~e~ w,~ 1 examine all artif: 
authenticity, Gus Adam Director said. Hours for the;,. Saturday, April 7 1973 l Ia atr 
. ' , mto 
S~nday, Apnl_ 8, Noon to 6pm High School is located at 5000 Ave._, ~an Jose, CA. Traders w· participate can contact the Center or phone 408/292-5440. 
* * * 
INDIAN BASKETBALL CLASSIC to 
Friday, Saturday & Sunday, M 
17 & 18. This is the 3rd Annual dian tournament and 37 tea Montana, Washington, O South Dakota, California and will participate in three divisions. A; Men's B and Wom "Participating men's teams will sified according to height w · enable all entrants an equal oppo to win a tournament title," aspo said. "Games will be held at t schools: Silver Creek, James L' Jose, and San Jose City Colle mission charge of $1.00 per adult asked for each session." A co schedule is available from Al Tourney Chairman. For mo formation, phone 408/ 292-5440. 
* * * TALKING LEAF, a Los Angele ­dian magazine, combine articles, poetry, art and sport co "Urban Indians find job oppo and educational programs helpful and we try to list th0 beneficial," says Sandra Osa Located in the Indian Center Leaf provides informativ_e co urban Indians of many tnbe · tion rates are: I yr. $4.00; 2yr · yrs. $10.00. Talking Leaf:s 1 600 South New Hampshire Angeles, CA., 90005. 
* * * 
t or event
If your item, new produc ask u,al
I
above, it's your fault! We_ o_n ~ lnd!P
10
related or will prove benehCI~ Around item six weeks in advance to. CA try, P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, 

f(!JJp)!IA~.~ ... .JfPlQ~f.lJ /J
By Marcelle Masson. Fas-and Thier Neighbors By W1//iam W1/loya (Eskt­
cinating stories and legends of the Wintu Indians of northern California, as told absorbingly by an "old one", Grant Towendolly. 
Cloth 5.50; paper 2.50 
.2. Buffalo Heart By Sun Bear. Exciting stor­ies of Indian culture, reli­gion, history and heroes from the standpoint of an 
Indian who knows much about the old ways. 
Cloth 6.00; paper 3.00 
3. Great Upon the Mountain -Crazy Horse of America 
By Vinson Brown, illus­trated by Adelbert Zephier (Yankton Sioux). A study in depth of the Indian un­derstanding of life, earth and spirit as seen through the life and feelings of a famous Indian holy man and warrior. With two color plates and many 
drawings. 
Cloth 4.95; paper 1.95 
4. Indian Talk-Hand Signals of the North American Indians 
By Iron Eyes Cody. Illus­trated with photographs by the author and his Seneca Indian wife; 80 pages; over 150 illustrations of the sign language. An easily-under­stood guide to a fascinating language used by the Plains 
Tribes for centuries. For all ages. 
Cloth 4.95; paper 1.95 
5. Lord of the Dawn, Quetzal­coatl 
By Tony Shearer. The story of ancient Mexico and her great prophet-King, Quetzal­coatl, the Plumed Serpent, in poetic prose. 7 color plates and numerous draw­ings. 
6. Native Americans of Cali­fornia and Nevada 
By Dr. Jack D. Forbes. 
Study of Indian culture in this area from prehistoric times to the present plus a fascinating history of Indian­white relations. 210 pages, 18 photographic plate~, 6 maps, and a history chart. A graphic and realistic ac­count, frankly pointing out crimes against the Indians. 
Cloth 6.95; paper 3.95 
By Vinson Brown;il/ustrated by Douglas Andrews. 64 pages, plus a full color map that shows the old trails and villages and wth paintings of Indian life; 70 illustra­tions in book, including 12 photographs. All these finely illuminate a simply and in-terestingly-told text. 
Cloth 5.50; paper 2.50 
8. Pomo Basketmaking By Elsie Allen. The life and art of this devoted Pomo grandmother. Mrs. Allen gives complete step-by-step directions for recreating beautiful and useful baskets, from gathering and prepar­ing roots and feathers to actual weaving and finishing of the baskets. Fully illus­trated. 
Cloth 5.00; paper 2.00 
9. Songs of the Yokuts and Paiutes 
By Alfred Pietroforte. lndi­an folk singing, adapted for grade school use by an in­structor at the College of the Sequoias. Of interest to anyone interested in Cali­fornia and Nevada Indians. Many pages of actual songs are accurately transcribed in , the book. 10 full-page photographs and 6 drawings. 
Cloth 4.50; paper J.50 
IO. Tales of the Sea Foam By Lise/le G. Brown. True adventures of an 11-year­old white girl with an Indian group of the northwestern California coast. A wise and wonderful old Indian wo­man lends strong interest to the story. Aids relations and understanding between white and Indian children. 5 photos, 12 drawings. 
Cloth 4. 75; paper 1.75 
11 . Tapestries in Sand-The Spirit of Indian Sandpaint­ing By David Villasenor, a part Otomi Indian, who has learned sandpainting from the Navajo medicine men. He writes with deep beauty arid feeling of this ancient art and its inner meanings. Many fascinating stories of Indian religion and culture are told. I I 2 pages, 16 pages of fine color plates. Cloth 6.25; paper 3.25 
mo) and Vinson Brown. 
Strange and prophetic vi­sion·s of the Indian Peoples. Five magnificent full-color reproductions of paintings done by Indian artists. 20 line drawings and 104 pages. 
Cloth 5.50; paper 2.50 
Good Medicine Series 13A Life in Harmony with Na­ture 32 pages. Paper 1.50 
138 Companion Volume 32 pages. Paper 1.50 l3C In Glacier Ntl. Park 32 pages. Paper 1.50 l3D Traditional Dress 50 pages. Paper 2.50 
13E Tipi Life 
32 pages. Paper 1.50 13F Good Medicine Tho ughts 32 pages. Paper 1.50 
13G Legends 64 pages. Paper 2.50 13H Spirit at Hidden Valley 120 pages. Paper 3.00 
14. Strange Journey 
By Louis Lone Dog (Mo­hawk-Delaware). We were intrigued and delighted by the haunting loveliness and striking spirituality of the face of this Indian woman, but even more by the extra­ordinary adventures of the spirit of which she writes. Illustrated with 2 color plates and several drawings by Tso Yazzie. 
Paper 1.50 
Charles Eastman Books I SA Indian Boyhood 
oPaper 3.50 
158 Old Indian Days 
Paper 3.50 
I SC The Soul of the Indian 
Paper 3.50 
16. Gospel of the Redman 
By Ernest Thompson Seton. 
Depth and beauty of reli­gion. An account of the Indian way of life. l08 pa­ges. 
Paper 1.95 
17. Secret of No Face, an lreok­wa Epic By Chief Evere/l Parker & Oledoska. An authentic Seneca tale never recorded before. Lavish color illus­trations & sketches by Indi­an artists. Glossary of Sene­ca words. I 74 pages. Cloth 6.95; paper 3.95 

·••························································
• ORDER BY NUMBER ONLY . 
0 I am enclosing full remittance, 

t (P250C550) 2 (P300C600) 3 (P250C550) 4 (Pl95C495) 5 (P395C695) 6 (P395C695) 7 (P250C550) 8 (P200C500) 9 (Pl50C450) 10 (Pl75C475) 11 (P325C625) 12 (P250C550) 13A (Pl50) 13B (P150) 13C (Pl50) 13D (P250) 13E (Pl50) 13F (Pl50) 13G (P250) 13H (/ 300) 14 (PJ50) t5A (P350) 158 (P350) !SC (P350) 16 (I-195) 17 (P395C695) 
I would like __ additional copies of No. 
Postage prepaid only when cash, check or money order accom­
panies order. 
NAME 
send my book(s) prepaid. 
0 Bill me. You may add 5011: hand­ling for I to 3 books + I011: each for four or more books. 
Mail to: Indian Books, Native American Publishing Company, 
P.O. Box 2033, Saota Clara, Cali­fornia , 9505 I. 


ADDRESS 
CITY _ ___ _ _ _____ STATE ___ ZIP CODE _____ 









