#1 A/I-Indian News Magazine JUNE-JULY 1973/75¢ 
• 



en strawberries are ripe-Moon when chokecherries are red 

THE KILLING OF PAHUSKA (LONG HAIR) 

THE WOUNDED KNEE IA, JR. NEGOTIATIONS 
D~Ai CHAVERS 3180 MOR IS D, IVE 
PALJ LTO CA 94303 




Not just another Indian book ... a GENUINE legend. 
Told in the true fashion of a Hageotah (story teller), The Secret of No Face has never been recorded before. It's a tale of Utgo (evil) and Orenda (the power for good) and provides a unique glimpse of Iroquois culture and tradition. 
Written by an actual Seneca Pine Tree Chief and his life-long friend Oledoska, the volume in-eludes full color illustrations and sketches. It will fascinate both young and old readers. 
Clo~h Edition $6.95, Paperback $3.95 
"This is a delightful and illuminating Seneca folk tale." 
-LIBRARY JOURNAL 
"It is a sincere effort to communicate a gen_uine Seneca leg­end or •telling'." 
INDIAN VOICE 
Check or Money Order payable to: 


NATIVE AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO. P.O. Box 2033 Santa Clara, Ca. 95051 

led an expedition against / ne~er but that I was ashamed of Jnd1an~ med of my government, 
I/, as e~ of my flag; fo r they were ,sh~~he right and we were always iys ,n They never broke a treaty
.1.1 wrong. ,, . 
,,.., r kept one. 

y,•e nev:BUFFALO BILL CODY 
egoofetay issue the article entitled In. 1~ 1e t -or Starve!' by Joe Musk-
i a e d' d R . d
id have been ere 1te : eprznte hoc~ -1Rights Digest with editorial 
tVl w h'
author's consent. . e regret t 1s d apologize for 1t. 

ran &rcover. · · .
"'"' rrangement of boxes 1s from

'Jbe a . h .
Inca design. R~placmg t e mner we inserted pictures of Wounded es, Tesunka Witko (Crazy Horse) 
Vine Deloria, Jr., which relate 

content. (S.J. Morrow believed t~e erazy Horse photo to be authentic and the curator of the Morrow collec­
• 0 at the University of South Dakota 
ncurs that this may be the Lakota · ftain.) 



MEMBER 
AMERICAN INDIAN PRESS ASSOCIATION 


ATIVE AMERICAN PUBLISHING COMPANY 
resident ern Eastman, Dakota 
rd of Directors an Chavers Lumbee 
' 
s a Cloud North Winnebago­
' 

rctd Green, Oneida Ojibwa ~ Blacksmith, Lakota. Caro/ ansen, Acoman; Stubbs, Dakota aRYan, Abenaki rt~ Yan, Ojibwa
••Ur M·11lard, Quechan 
IND/AN VOICE 



indian* 11oicc 
*Though we are not Indians, The People have a variety of names for themselves. Among them: Human Beings, The Original People, Tobacco People, Keepers of the Fire, Com People, etc. With this in mind, we wlll refer to Native People simply as Indians when convenient In the text. 
VOLUME Ill, No. 4 JUNE I JULY 1973 
TABLE OF CONTENTS EDITORIAL ............ : ..........................._.......... 2 MAl L CALL .................................................. 4 THE WOUNDED KNEE NEGOTIATIONS Hank Adams ........ 5 INTERVIEW: VINEDELORIA, JR............................... 8 
THE GREAT 1974 INDIAN BUDGET LOG-JAM Laura Wittstock . ......................................... 11 THE KILLING OF PAHUSKA (LONG HA1R) Robert Andrew Meigs .................................... 13 CHIEF BLUE: THE LAST CATAWBA INDIAN Jim Largo ...... 19 THE SECOND BATTLE OF WOUNDED KNEE Richard La Course . ...................................... 20 TROUBLE AT TONGUE RIVER Jean McLean ................ 23 INTERVIEW: THE HONORABLE CHARLES S. GUBSER ..·..... 25 PART -2: OMANI LAKOTA Tahca S~a .. ~ ............. . ....... 27 NATIVE AMERICAN ART Oneoda ............... . ........... 31 SHORT STORY: PRIVATE STRANGERS Richard G. Green ... 34 WIGWAM EVENINGS Charles and Elaine Eastman ........... 21 ~IGHTMARES IN THE BIA ANYONE? John Coyote . : ..-.. ..._. 37 PHOTO ESSAY jim Domke ................................. 42 AROUND INDIAN COUNTRY/ SUMMER POW-WOW SCHEDULE ...............-........ 61 
Editors: Fern Eastman, Dakota; Richard Green, Oneida ' Staff: Robert Meigs, Choctaw-Cherokee; Jean McLean, Lakota; 


Ken Ryan, Abenaki; Oneoda, Ojibwa; John Kaahanui, Dakota--·z°"' Cherokee; Ann Hansen, Acoma; Carole Stubbs, Dakota; T Archie Blacksmith, Lakota; Jim Domke, photographer. 
Indian Voice, the all-Indian newsmagazine c, copyrighted (1973) by Native American Publishing Company, a non-profit organization. It will endeavor to present an authentic glimpse of all aspects of Native life, past and present, wriuen from the Indian viewpoint. No part of it may be reprinted without permission. Editorial offices are located at 1984 The Alameda, San Jose, Ca. 95126. However, all correspondence must be addressed to: P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, Ca. 95051. Manuscripts and art materials are welcome but no respon­sibility can be assumed for unsolicited materials. Names of characters in short stories and poetry are fictitious. Writers and photogr,aphers should query. Indian Voice is published monthly except July and August. Application to mail at second-class postage rates is pending at San Jose, Ca. Single copy price is 75 cents. Subscription rates are: $7.50 for one year, $15.00 for two years and $22.00 for three years. Foreign and Canadian subscribers must add $1.00 per year for additional handling expenses. Printed in U.S.A. by union printers. 
µ;,l s 
~ 
z 
'<j' µ;,l 0\ :> 
<
< u +-'

L.. Cf) 
µ;,l­
0 ~ ro
1--< ·-L.. ·-""O 
z < (1) ~ 
~ c., 
0 z C
....l 
::l 
ro
c-<'I ~ 
00 ~ N p::i 
C
L.. 
(t, 
H C 
ro 
u 
0 ~ 
Q) 
E 
~ 
00 
~ -, I~ 
0 
00 
'<j' 
c-<'I 
IA 
~=I '­
_,J
'<j' 

ATTENTION 

SUBSCRIBERS 
Change of Address? Zip Code Correct? 
We can assure prompt delivery of your maga­zine if we show the cor rect address and ZIP Code on your mailing label. (Postal regula­
tions require us to file addresses according to ZIP CODE.) If you move, be sure to 
Fill out and mail to: 
IND/AN VOICE P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, California 95050. 
. I 
VJ VJ 
LIJ 
lt: 
,0 0 
< 
LIJ 
r z I 
a:: 
I ::, I 0 I . 
...
I zI I ~ 
~ I . ~ ~ 
~ 
I ~~~~I 
z en u en I


l _v-__________ .. ----­


CONCERNING PAIUTE INDIANS IN MoNo COUNTY: In 1933 the Pa· 
. , 1ute 
IOwens Valley were moved by the City of Los Angeles, enabling it to in tall generators, power lines, etc., and also guarantee a water supply. The\n/ relocated to Antelope Valley, Mono County, where they face unber 
conditions. ievab They live in shanties made of whatever scraps they can gather hav water, electricity or any modern facilities. (Their only source of ~ater~ no irrigation ditch.) They endure long, hard winters, snow seems to tak~ : 
melt, and have very little shelter against freezing temperatures. 
There is no industry in the area and they are isolated by the high Si surround Antelope Valley. About 60% are on welfare. The rest work as· or take any type of seasonal employment available, since the entire valley be cattle ranches and grazing land. Due to the short growing season, there· sibility of farming as a means of income. 
This poverty is intolerable in the richest country in the world. 
The Forestry Service, which owns most of the virgin land in the area the Toiyabe National Forest, holds 720 acres of land where the Marine Co given permission to build a number of houses. These were used for several the Marines as a winter warfare training camp. The houses are well-built,· and contain all the modern facilities the Paiutes now lack: running water sewer connections, electricity, a laundromat, etc. These houses were vacated Marine Corps in 1967, and have since been abandoned. The General Se ministration wishes to dispose of them. 
The Paiutes would like to acquire this property. Other competito withdrawn their expressed interest in the houses and land in favor of the There is also a campground area which could be operated. This would gen come for the tribe, since the area has heavy tourist traffic on Highway 395 runs through the center of the Valley. 
It seems like an ideal solution which would benefit everybody. Howe 
These Indians are not an enrolled tribe recognized by the Federal Gove To be recognized they would have to own land. They cannot acquire land they are not enrolled and properly recognized. A beautiful example of Catcb-
For the past several years, they have been represented by the lnter-Tn Council of California, which now can do little, since they were funded bytheO and funds have now been cut to almost nothing. Their legal counsel came from California Rural Land Agency, which is in the same financial situation,andfor same reason. The Paiutes have little power and less money to embark on an campaign. 
The Society of American Indians in Livermore has written to Congressmen, and the Secretary of the Interior outlining this problem. Th_ received no satisfactory answer. A group of concerned citizens William Finale, Area Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs in Sacra~ nto. explained that special legislation is needed to authorize the Forestry Service to the land to the Indians. The Forestry Service is willing to do this. Also legislation is needed authorizing the Department of the Interior to a~r houses on behalf of the Paiutes. Mr. Finale stated that he is very much 10 1 this measure and encouraged and can be quoted to that effect. 
Also in favor of this measure are California Senator Alan Cr~ns_ton here John Tunney, Congressman Bob Mathias, (who represents the d1stn_ct "! Paiutes live) and Congressman Pete Stark of the 8th Congressional D1stncL them have been actively working towards a solution. . 
If the California State Legislative Body could pass a resolution t~ federal representation from California concerning this problem, ~erhaps ~d be tlemen with the power to introduce and pass the needed legislation wou more inspired to do so. 
Voice,. us-who are you? By this, I 1111 cunoess my interest in what I read 
to expr .
Ni vajo r,mes. 
a agazine edited by students from the 111A ea? Who controls the 'tongue'
BaY r . voice? •

material that has been published I ~ there and, as I said, I am curious cautious).
w Bob Maldonado-do you have

I:k issues in which h~ appeared ~s old artist' as stated m the Nava10 
article? ELISABETH SoBAHE 
Arizona 
Voice is not a student edited publi­though currently we list three on 
staff. Our group averages thirty-six 
of age and all ~ut two have close wilh home reservatzons. 'obody controls the tongue of Indian 
. We are not affiliated nor sponsored ,ny federal, political or private organi­. We do not embrace nor endorse group except the American Indian Association. We are dedicated to the of presenting the true Indian view­' therefore we lean toward tradition-

In the old days whether in a Longhouse, 
loundhouse or gathered around a council our people spoke their minds. Thus of the publications' primary aims is 
IO provide an outlet for all Indian expres­1/you have material, do not hesitate IO lllbmit it. Bob Maldonado's art appeared on the and in the centerfold of our March I 3issue. 
* * * 

Dear Friends: ~eard your TV ad. Good idea for g your message across. Enclosed
SS
.00 to help pay for it. 
ANONYMOUS where in California 

~ you for your. thoughtfulness. Your lo toodmuch appreciated and will be put 
use. 
* * * 

°"1 Friends· 
Ican't b : 
e~m to tell you how much I like · :;:fazme. I have never read a maga­~ Vi ~as as truthful and friendly as 
I ha 01ce. 
, ___: ve a ve d 
·OIIICl'ican I d. ry eep affection for the y th n ian and try to help him in 
I

~ Vo _at can. I have subscribed to India ice to learn. Many of my friends llortant u~~ and I ~ave gained a very im­tand· erstandmg of your life-without Ing there isn't much progress. 

I believe many of the things you do. I can really relate to Indian beliefs and my white friends can't understand me now. 
I think it would be very wrong if you were to lose your culture, you are quite a people. 
I also think you are going to be able to help me a lot. I am serious about under­standing your people and I will do every­thing possible to do that. 
KATHY LESSMAN 
Thank you for your kind words, you have made our day. 
* * * 
Dear Editors: 

I would like to know if any of your readers could give me some news of my grandfather. His name is Peter Kanasawe of Manitowaning Island, Ontario, Canada. Thank you. 
MARY GARCIA 
P.O. Box 45 

Baldwin Park, California 91706 
* * * 
Dear Indian Voice: 

I'm writing this letter in hopes of getting support for the Indians here at the Federal Youth Center in Englewood, Colorado. I am one of these people. We are not getting special needs we should be getting in order to make it in the Indian community on the reservations. A controlled Indian program should be set up in this center. 
This program would be controlled by Indian people on the outside. It would restore pride, self-identity, self-respect and self-determination. The present prison programs fail to do this for Indian offenders. 
There are 75 to 80 Indians here. Many have returned 1or the second time. This is my third time back. Many other Indians here feel these programs failed us in pre­paring us for the free world. We were pre­pared for an environment that • we knew nothing about and we failed to make it. We were not given the proper programs necessary for rehabilitation. 
The Indian offender, Indian organiza­tions and the Indian community must work . together to get these programs set up. We must unite to make a better and brighter path for our brothers and sisters now behind bars so they may be equal and have hope for the future. We can no longer let our brothers' and sisters' plea for help go unheard. Let us act now so that Indian offenders may lift their heads in pride at being Indians. 
I ask your support in drawing up a pro­posal of the existing situation here. I am without the equipment to do this at this place. Names and addresses of people or organizations that could assist us would be helpful. 
IND/AN VOICE 3 
The AIM chapter in Denver offers their 
support and have helped us with our Indi­
an meetings out there at the center. If you 
people have any ideas that will aid us in 
establishing this program please let me 
hear them. 
Take it easy brothers and sisters. Answer 
Soon. 
NORRIS E. GILHAM 
Box PMB 1000 
Englewood, Colorado 80110 
We are sending a list of Foundations that may be of help to you. We regret that we cannot provide assistance in proposal writ­ing other than supplying a few names. In the past, AIM has been very helpful in establishing constructive programs of the sort you mention, but due to their stand · at Wounded Knee, much of their financial 
support has been withdrawn. 
Good luck with your worthwhile project. 
It is our hope that your message will reach 
those of our readers who are concerned 
enough to offer their help. 
* * * 
Dear Sirs: 
I am white, eighteen and a bit of an 
idealist. But, mind you, I am not that far­
gone not to see the sick and utter scar on 
U.S. History. I speak of the genocide at­tempted on the First Americans. 
Land the Indian held was sacred. White 
men never loved this country for its blue 
lakes, its mountains and its green trees. 
They only loved what could be done to 
those green trees and those rolling plains 
in terms of progression, materialism and 
industrialism. 
I am disgusted and disallusioned. I 
would like you to know that the only thing 
that keeps me going is the fight of the 
Native American and Red Power! 
And to those white ones who want to 
go out and work on an Indian reservation 
for those 'poor' souls ...think twice! They 
are not poor at all; they are wealthier than 
you and I will ever be. If you really want 
to help the Native, go out and teach whites 
what they don't know about Indian beauty, 
and/ or clarify what they think they know. 
There before the grace of you, go I. 
FRANI FALCONE 
Broomall, Pennsylvania 
When you speak of 'genocide attempted' it should be pointed out that many ofthese policies still exist in 1973. Your statement about helping Indians is timely since it is usually during vacation time that Ameri­cans suddenly rush to the nearest rez to . help those poor' souls whether they want it or not. Tatanka Iyotake (Sitting Bull) once told a newsman' "Your people look up to men because they are rich; because they have much land, many lodges, many squaws. Well, I suppose my people look up to me because I am poor. That is the difference." 
Comments in the form of letters are wel­come. Indian Voice editors reserve the right to edit material submitted. Please address your letter to: Mail Call, P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, CA 9505 l. 

4 . 

Adams, Nat~onal Director for Su':ival ofAmeri­~ ns Associatzon (SAIA) reveals his role as nego­,a•ng the Wounded Knee occupation. He was chief -~:: for the T~ail of Broken Treaties during and after
-:fAtakeover m November, 1972. He was arrested 31, 1973 (See IV MaY_ 1973) but after appearing ~ he grand !ury, the Justice Department dropped all 
,,,.,. against him). 
OD March 16 I received a call from Russell Means and Mills from inside Wounded Knee asking that I take next plane to Rapid City,. whe~e a chartered plane IOlkl be waiting to fly me to Pme Ridge, from where the · nal Council of Churches (NCC)' John Adams would .-port me into the village to assist with negotiations the drafting of position papers. The Justice Depart­
• represented by Assistant to the Attorney General llldington Wood, had made a "final" 5-page, 20-point ,mposaI for a "resolution" of the confrontation, which characterized as "the best that can be secured'' from the 
.S. Government. On March 18, a negotiating session was Wd in Wounded Knee for the purpose of reviewing the ,n,posal paragraph by paragraph, without material ,n,gress. After the session, AIM attorneys Ramon loabideaux and Beverly Axelrod, plus myself, went to Bar6ngton Wood's office to meet with him and his assistant Diet Hellstern for purpose ofscheduling and str_ucturing the 
• day's negotiating structure. Roubideaux and the federal lef)tiators expressed satisfaction with the earlier session 11d optimism for the next. In exception, I informed them lllat the proposal would be rejected because it failed to give 
account to the Sioux Treaty and Agreements and lecause it insisted upon treating the situation solely as a ~ r of criminal activity which must be ended by op­~ ve ~nd coercive police action, although not by out­~ ohce attack. On request to propose an alternative, I fl a suggested 7-point procedure for the dispossession '1oWeaghponry and process for dealing with substantive issues 
u_ ?Ut the Reservation. (We emphasized that we had no ',otiatmg authority, but were suggesting that the 7-points fns~become their proposal.) .:a.. ed Wounded Knee, members of the leadership coun­
'411 an • .
Prtaid Orgamzations had reviewed my letter to the Iasis ;nt and extracted its several recommendations as the Govt or a counter-proposal to the "best" offered by the 
ra~m~nt. (Ov~r the course of the weekend I had drafted llate111e information sheets, position papers, public ~ o;~s, ~nd proposals, and typed them on stencils for llren d /hmg.) Although the 7-point proposal had notSiont ~ ted. for Wounded Knee, members of the Oglala lcctpted i~nc~! got a copy and discµssed it while I was asleep, 
as An Offer They Can't Refuse; A Proposal That 
IND/AN VOICE 5 


A glimpse of bargaining table activities during the Wounded Knee crisis. 
Will Defuse", and typed it up as a Wounded Knee proposal. On March 19, the combined "counter-proposar' was circulated to the news media and transmitted to Harlington Wood at Pine Ridge. The proposals were dismissed out-of­hand with virtually no reading or review. On that rejection, negotiations were terminated by Wounded Knee -with Russell Means characterizing the alternatives, as well as expressing the key, for a resolution in his statement: "We will deal with the President now as the Treaty prescribes, or we shall defend ourselves against his outlaw nation." 
I was requested to return to Washington D.C., to help secure a White House response and involvement with the March 19 positions and proposal. Two key provisions called for dispatch of a Sioux Indian to Wounded Knee as an "emissary" of the President (referencing treaty articles), and the appointment of a "special supervisor" to assume ad­ministration of the BIA Aberdeen Area Office and its agen­cies. (The demand for outright or' planned removal of Richard Wilson as tribal chairman was dropped from the March 19 positions.) Immediately on return, I prepared a complete statement of the final 10-point proposal from Wounded Knee. Secondly, I received legislative drafts oftwo proposed congressional Joint Resolutions which would provide for authorization and funding for ( 1) the presiden­tial emissary and (2) a national commission on Indian Treaty Rights, which had been prepared for me by Georgetown University law professor William H. Rogers, Jr., which I modified slightly and duplicated for submittal to Members of Congress for consideration of sponsorship. 
On Friday March 23, I met with Leonard Garment, Special Consultant to the President, at his offices for lunch and discussions of Wounded Knee, remaining in his offices for approximately five hours. After thorough consideration of my views, followed by extensive consultations by phone with other officials ( discernibly with both Departments of Interior and Justice, as well as other persons in the White House), an arrangement was suggested whereby (being asked if I would or could return to Wounded Knee) all White House involvement would remain confidential and without public mention (for practical purposes ofreaching a peaceful settlement without allowing internal disputes within the Departments to develop as an obstacle to it, and for 'minimizing other oppositions which might otherwise develop); I would abbreviate the IO-point proposal as a new position; it would be submitted after I returned to Wounded Knee; the Departments would accept it in principle and withdraw all their previous proposals; and the body ofa final agreement and settlement would be reconstructed in 
(Over) 

negotiating sessions, having some general conformity to the March 19 proposal. Brad Patterson, assistant to Mr. Garment, made plane reservations to Rapid City for me; however, I informed them that I did not want financial as­sistance when asked if I needed money for the trip. 
Essentially, this arrangement was to allow complete con­formance with the existing demands and proposals from Wounded Knee, particularly with respect to the WK in­sistence that the 1868 Sioux Treaty and 1876 Agreements called for a presidential assignment of Sioux persons in matters requiring a restoration of "peace and order" on the Sioux reservations. Mr. Garment emphasized that the situation was primarily the responsibility of the two Departments and that the White House would make no unwarranted interventions in the matter, although it was at that moment willing to help construct the mechanics for negotiating a settlement. In Mr. Garment's outer office, I had reduced the March 19 proposalto a short 19 lines (about 1 / 10 the original text) and typed it there. Mr. Garment pointedly stressed that he could make no promises respec­ting its development mto a final agreement by negotiations with the Departments and the measure~ or provisions they would ultimately accept. There appeared some allowance, however, that in areas of disagreement between the Depart­ments, or in relation to matters which would normally, legitimately and properly be submitted to the White House for decisions or review, I could submit Wounded Knee viewpoints there also for consideration or reasonable appeal, . and possible reconsideration by the Departments. (At one point subsequently, Mr. Garment in telephone conversation to me in South Dakota remarked, "You have to realize we aren't just ventriloquists here; the De­partments do have their responsibilities as well, and must make their own decisions accordingly.") 
Adams Ousted From Pine Ridge 

The White House had transmitted the text of the ab­breviated proposal to Pine Ridge by the time I arrived there on the evening of March 24, and where I was prepared to meet with tribal chairman Richard Wilson and Assistant to the Secretary of the Interior Marvin Franklin at that time, as well as Justice Department officials involved in negotia­tions, all for the purposes of discussing the parameters of a settlement and the possibilities of facilitating its being reached immediately. On objection from Mr. Wilson, Marvin Franklin disappeared and refused to meet with me, as did Mr. Wilson, who had been advised of the purposes of 
. my coming by Hand Walker, Director ofthe Office of Indian Water Rights. Tribal officials and BIA agency and police personnel became extremely angered upon learning that I had walked past them to begin a meeting with Harlington Wood, Dick Hellstern, and another Assistant Attorney General of the United States Kent Frizzell on an upper floor of the BIA Agency Building. (At this first moment of meeting Mr. Frizzell, he asked me if I was the "emissary from the President"; I told him I was not.) The meeting did not really get underway before Mr. Wood left the room for dis­cussions with local BIA officials and officers. They returned into the office to explain that they had decided not to arrest me. BIA Superintendent Stanley Lyman introduced himself to me, then introduced Delmar Eastman, Chief of BIA Agency Police, who issued myself and my assistant Mike Hunt court orders of eviction. We were then transported beyond reservation and State lines, ten miles into Nebraska before the two of us were abandoned by the BIA Special Of­ficers. (Later that evening, a telephone conversation with Leonard Garment indicated that he had bee inti 
had met with Marvin Franklin and Richa::i W~ 
being forced into Nebraska. I had to advise h" that this was not true, before he accepted thef: un t 
been misinformed by his governmental sou~act that 
From Chadron, Nebraska, I maintainedces.) Dick · Hellstern, Leonard Garment, and c:n schedulings, Wounded Knee. Russell Means had Y a "major announcement" for Monday mornin Federal officials on the scene could still not sec!!tlae Wounded Knee for me. Leonard Garment asked dicated that I was useless in Nebraska and should return to D.C., that I try to stick around a coupleda if things might loosen up. On Sunday aftern Hellstern and Kent Frizzell came to Chadron to ooa, possible forms a settlement might take, understan could not negotiate any agreements in behalf of Knee without being inside the village and in pa with Indian people there. (I became an early cas meeting, when Hellstern popped open a catchup splashed big blotches of catchup on my leg, side and well as my coat and the wall four feet behind me. I toll( "Damn, it's no wonder they won't negotiate with you; dangerous. I hope you aren't commanding the police out there.") In the course of the meeting, I disc March 19th positions and the ten points as a probable for a settlement, which I would try to sell to the people returned into Wounded Knee. Frizzell ended the with the judgement that "They would never buy this 
Washington". Hellstern remained behind momen 
remark, outside Frizzell's hearing, that "I think they 

let's work on it." 
There were calls to me on Sunday from Wounded asked Russell Means ifhe did have a "major announ to make, or was he expecting me to provide the basis from the results of my trip to Washington. He answered 
·he thought I would have it. I advised both he and 
Camp about my White House meeting and arrange 
cautioning them that in no instance should there be 
mention of the White House or involvement by its offi 
indicated that I would continue trying to get in, but 
would not stay around indefinitely if the Government 
not take me in by their means. 
No progress was made Monday respecting my WK. However, Dick Hellstern did complete a preliminary a proposed settlement agreement, comforming in large to the March 19 proposals from Wounded Knee, whidl brought to me in Chadron in the early evening of the We reviewed them briefly together. I stressed the urgencf being able to develop a final agreement proposal Wounded Knee people, rather than independently and greater prospects of rejection, but indicated I would . any alterations or modifications I thought necessary Ill draft and get it back to him as soon as possible -for P transmittal into Wounded Knee. Additionally, rumor_s. begun to circulate about all "negotiations and_ ~ . being taken over by the Oglala Sioux and its ~i~ Group" and being thereafter conducted in Rapid City. I dicated to Hellstern that I believed this was incorrect, had as much authority as anyone outside Wounde~ Knee negotiations, and that I could not negotiate outside Additionally, I showed him a list of more than twenr demands, which I had just received, which purported Y to be the basis for negotiations in Rapid City. ~e agre:. there were very few items on that list which CO accepted, if ever effected by the U.S. Government. 
making slight language modifications and ad­
I1,egan minor provisions, or deleting some, on his a re; ft with the assistance of four other Indians who 1 r~e out of Wounded Knee. Later that evening1 ~ justl~~ern called to inform me about the shooting of a shal who had been transported to a hospital in 'J. ~~rscritical condition. I asked why thev continued to ~ ve~ 10getting me inside; couldn't they take me in by-.,,y10 ? Hellstern responded, "We'll get you in there right )llicOPte\hoW even if I have to do cartwheels all the way 
Ysom ' d • ,,,
Washington to o it. 

.-~ esday the 27th, a dramatic shift in governmental at-
on uoccurred. Interest in my participation subsided

jad: completely with the news that Russell Means and 
_..a . Banks had left, or been thrown out of, Wounded 
IJelllll5The federal negotiating hopes were transferred to 
~dCity where Aaron DeSersa had declared that he and 
=~wou'id negotiate an end to the Wounded Knee oc­
tion -and that that_ ha~ been the "major an­

CIIP8cement" that Russell Means had been referring to. On 
=Monday and Tuesday, I had declin_ed re9uests to travel,, 
to be picked up to go to Rapid City by Ramon 

: oubideaux and his representatives, in order that I would be 
available to enter Wounded Knee at the first opportunity. 
On Tuesday, I advised theWhite House and the Justice 
Department negotiators (Kent Frizzell by then had replaced 
Barlington Wood as the senior Justice representative on the 
one), as well as Senator Abourezk's office that I believed 
tbat the Rapid City sessions were not authorized and would 
1,e repudiated by Wounded Knee -and would primarily be 
1 waste of crucial time. Senator Abourezk and Interior's 
Marvin Franklin both flew to South Dakota for the sessions, 
preceded by their public statements expressing optimism 
that a settlement was, if not imminent, near. (Senator 
Abourezk had other business there, however, relating to 
flood relief activities and efficiency or adequacy.) Since WK 
entry seemed wholly unlikely at that point, I proceeded to 
Rapid City for the meetings scheduled there on Wednesday. 
(Traveling there with three other Indians and two horses was 
another experience in itself. A half a dozen cowboys or white 
Rdnecks pulled pistols on us at a truckstop, until we were 
!3ken into custody by the local sheriff and state patrolmen; 
mseveral ensuing incidents and stops, two of the others 
recieved citations obligating up each time to return to the jail 
to post bonds (total $135.00 cash); the sheriff then tailgated 
•. for twenty miles toward Rapid City, stopping us inter­mittently to make checks on our travel plans and time sch~dule, our trailer license, our horses' brands, our brand l'Cglstration, and our brand clearance for inter-state travel.) 

Frizzell Balks at Draft 

Ra~e Wednesday meeting at the Mother Butler Center in Tbpid City was well-attended -but nonetheless a fiasco. theefede_ral representatives were immediately informed that that~etmg ha~ ~ot been sanctioned by Wounded Knee and COUid ~ nego~iat10ns could be held,· although discussions dia Re relati_ng to general problems on the Pine Ridge In­Vie O eservation. The news media was invited in briefly to A~~ralong w!th A;dministration officials and Senator Ped e~k, a videotaped statement ~ Dennis Banks and turht0 Bissonette denouncing the Rapifl City meetings. Pic­Wougd Russell Means and other central leaders inside both~ ed ~nee, the videotaped segment related the fact that llread ennis and Russell had left to go to Rosebud, but had Y returned to the occupied village. Their declaration 
IND/AN VOICE 

was clear that no negotiations could take place outside of Wounded Knee. 
Senator Abourezk, Marvin Franklin and Kent Frizzell held several private meetings to discuss the situation. Finally, I and Sid Mills broke into one of their meetings to make some suggestions, being joined shortly thereafter by Ted Means, Ramon Roubideaux, and a couple score of different Oglala Sioux coming in and out to meet with the of­ficials. Almost immediately, Ramon Roubideaux received a note from Dennis Banks in Wounded Knee, instructing Ramon to leave the meeting. Ted and Sid offered various specific advices on what the government could do to bring about a settlement -finally mentioning that the papers I had could provide the form for an agreement -if negotiated with the right Oglala Sioux Indians inside Wounded Knee (including some who had not been part of the occupation, but remained outside). I offered the revised draft that we had 
worked on the two previous nights, and requested that a 
copy be transmitted inside Wounded Knee as well as being returned to Dick Hellstern. Kent Frizzel, showing extreme anger, rejected the document, saying that "the Government can't accept this!" I asked, "Why not? The Government drafted it! We've only made the slightest changes·from Hellstern's draft." 
Frizzell exploded, "Dick Hellstern does not speak for the United States Government. He's only my assistant!" 
"Well who does speak for the government," we asked. 
"I do!" Frizzel exclaimed. 
As soon as I returned to my apartment, I called, first, Dick Hellstern and then Leonard Garment. I advised them of the non-results of the meeting, the effect of the videotaped instructions carried from Wounded Knee, and of the final exchanges between ourselves and Kent Frizzell. I stressed that I had not come to South Dakota to waste either my time or anyone else's -and that if my working with Dick Hellstern had just been someone's idea of a game, I was going to attempt to catch the first plane scheduled back to Washington, D.C. I was advised that there would be an attempt to straighten the matter out, and asked to stay around for at least a little while longer to see if something new might develop. 
Later that evening, Leonard Garment called to say that he had talked with .Kent Frizzell, that he thought things might go a little better now, and that Frizzell was going to attempt to transport me inside Wounded Knee -with the permis­sion of the tribal chairman if possible, but otherwise if not. About fifteen minutes afterwards, Kent Frizzell called. He apologized for his anger earlier that day, the stormy session, and his statements. He expressed hope that we might be able to work together and manage to get me into Wounded Knee to have negotiations begin again. On Thursday, Frizzell and Hellstern indicated that the tribal chairman had consented to Ramon Roubideaux and my entry into Wounded Knee. Ramon had other court business so did not go; but on Friday the 30th, Wayne Colburn, Chief of U.S. Marshals, transported me in his car from the command post in Pine Ridge past the vigilante and federal roadblocks to Wounded Knee. Mark Lane, Beverly Axelrod, and Fran Olson, non-Indian attorneys followed us in rnute -with considerable difficulty, searches and delay. (Federal agents carefully refrained from using my name on radioed transmissions.) I explained the content and nature of my talks at the White House and discussed subsequent events. In particular, I stressed my belief that the 
(see page 38) 

Vine Deloria Jr., currently Chairman ofthe Institute for the Development of Indian Law, wasformerly the president of NCAl He is author of the following best selling books "Custer Did for Your Sins", "We Talk, You Listen", and"Of Utmost Good Faith". 
His new work, "God is Red" will be out soon. He was interviewed by Jean McLean at the St. Francis Hotel in San Francisco, California in April, 1973. 

Indian Voice: As a Lakota, and as an expert on Indian legal and historical matters, what is your view of the current situation in South Dakota? 
Deloria: First I would like to tell you a little of the background on that situation. All the current problems on the Lakota reservations go back to two basic factors: first, the erosion of,sovreignty, which had been established by all the early treaties, by the Allotment acts of the l 880's ­finalized by the citizenship act of 1924, and secondly, the stripping of the Lakota's economic base which occurred during the first World War. Before the war we had an enormous cattle ranch -nearly 8,000,000 acres of land. 
Then in 1916 the government came in and sold all of our cattle, allegedly for food in World War I. Then they turned around and leased all the land to white cattlemen in 1917. So in one year the Oglala Lakota were stripped of everything. Their land was leased out, without their power or consent, for five years at a time. 
A review of current Indian aff . a prominent Lakota writer. a1rs by 
Indian Voice: And they had no recourse or al . No other work they could do? terna Deloria: No. That is what started to push peo 1reservation. There had been no need to go off thep e off of 
. ~~­
or to do migrant work before 191 6. But once th OIi stripped of their cattle economy, half the people subs~ lease money and the rest had to leave to find work F~· began to break up and poverty was acute. · 
lndia_n Voice: You discussed t~e World War I prob} rn land bemg taken and leased to white people in the arti 1 of wrote for the New York Times Book Review back i~ 19 ou but it isn'~ clea~ to me why this change took place. Wa t a change m pohcy towards the Lakota or Indians in gen or did the war simply give them an excuse to exploi situation and they took it! a 
Deloria: Exactly. Another factor was that at that time in South Dakota, they started to experiment with dry farmi So different white locals began buying up Indian land for next to nothing and selling it to dry farmers for plen . 
Indian Voice: In other words, the experiment with d farming made land that had previously been valuable o for grazing become suddenly valuable for farming and therefore worth a lot more. 
Deloria: Yes, that's exactly what happened, and fa · · began to break up, the younger one's heading for jobs in cities. 
;ce: What was the result of the Allotment Act? 
~~t took communal or tribal la~d~ ai:id broke 
individual allotments. You see, hvmg m the old 

up iot0the band would own the grazing land and 

:; waY, old graze their cattle there. But as soon as it was 
't,d'/ooe wo O one had room to graze their cattle. This was 
I split up, "phase in the destruction of tribal culture -by 
. anothe~he. land into allo~ments an? p_itting one ln~ian 
~ g up tner. Most of Federal Law 1s simply seculanzed 
;,s~ an~heology. It was tried out on Indians and has 
()rist180 tallY destructive and inadequate. But since the 
,a~ to are still in the Christian bag they can't define 
-ricans re talking about in Indian terms and can't see why 
fbattheY ~oesn't work. 
died' wai hifld the Wounded Knee confrontation are two 
N~~, a~groups who are trying to say that we have to do uacf1t1°~h all these alien white patterns so we can get back to afllY911 reallY were before and should never have been trblt we leave our tradition! There is the Treaty Rights forced·:°and the Land Owners Association. They want to eoun~ ' toP half of the reservation at Pine Ridge and have cate t ed wrn back their allotments, or at least form tyerybinftY allotments, and with it raise a community herd collllll rate in the old band structure. 
anc1 ope -· 
Indian Voice: What do y~u thin~ about this matter of 
'bal organiiat10n? In the middle 60 s you were the head of:C National Council of American Indians. Then in 1970 when you wrote that Times article, you were writing as though you had a lot of sympathy with traditional Indians liteRolling ! hunder and Mad Bear, who want to go back to the old ways. I wondered where vou are now? 
Deloria: Oh, I suppose ... well I'm very strong for that. Theproblem is you can't get the men making policy in the government o~w, o~ the people on the tribal counc~l to really lookat their s1tuat10n long enough to really reahze what's happening to them. You have conflict even in the best tribes between the tribal government wanting to prevent all land sales until it has money to purchase and consolidate and the individual owners wanting to sell their land and bail out of the whole thing. 
Somehow there has to be a means of reconciling the two by, acknowledging the smaller communities as governing units and making the tribal council represent geographical areas and cultural units on the reservation instead of individual people. 
Indian Voice: You mean such -as The Pine Ridge Reservation, or the Ogalala People? 
Deloria: Exactly ... The 1968 Civil Rights Act was really detrimental because all the government programs would come in to the agency headquarters, and they shifted the Population figures to delete half of what was coming. You lee what that act did was to break up the council we'd had for thirty years and reapportion according to population. Consequently you have an urbanization process going on the reservation. 
Indian Voice: Is Trimble (Charles) repr~sentative of the IOrt of tribal chairmen they have country wide? 
_Deloria: I don't think he has enough experience in dealing ~t~ things but he's certainly got enough talent so that he'll uung NCAI along. The big problem right now is with tribal chairmen associations. What the Nixon Administration has ':~ydone with Robert Robertson is to co-opt all the tribal c irmen. Consequently they almost destroyed NCAI.10hertson strictly controls the National Tribal Chairmen's 
0ciation so they always end up simply endorsing 

overnment policy. I think they're a bunch of sell.:.outs. 
IND/AN VOICE 9 

Indian Voice: But you wouldn't classify Trimble with Robertson? 
Deloria: Oh, No! Trimble's much better! He's really trying to build up independent Indian organizations on the outside that can really represent Indian views to the government. What Robertson has done is to "take" the tribal chairmen, who should be the tribes key representative to the government -because he has almost unlimited tribal money he can take them down to Sarasota during the winter and run them out here to San Francisco or anyplace he wants to take them and these dummies go along with him and what he feeds them. 
The end is that the tribal chairmen have become the 
federal apologists to their people instead of being the 
representatives of their people to the federal government. 
Once you've made that kind of transition you get problems 
you cannot answer. They're not going to spend their time 
telling the Feds what's wrong with the reservation. They are 
going to spend their time attacking other Indians saying "We 
are the representatives -we've got it all under control and 
you keep out of it!" We had a meeting last June trying to set 
up platforms for the two political parties to adopt and Rip 
Baker the Tribal Chairman came and sat in for a few days 
and refused to endorse any of the planks because he said 
there weren't enouch tribal chairmen involved. Dennis 
Banks was there, Floyd Richmond, myself and some others, 
and we all pointed out to him that we were ready to support 
any tribal governments move to reclaim land -there were 
all shades of talent available. We were able to go into legis­
lation, law suits, publicity campaigns, activism :_ anything 
you wanted -and we wanted to act. But .all the tribal 
chairmen can say when they come to meetings is to stand up 
and give this little speech that they are representatives of the 
Indian People and they were elected by Indian people, and 
therefore, the rest of us shouldn't do anything. ­
As a result Rip Baker departed -he didn't want anything 
to do with us. I found out he had some land tlie government 
was supposed to give him in 1934. All of us were available to 
help him there, but ifhe didn't come to tell us the problems of 
his tribe, such as: "I don't want any activism here.:_! want a 
straight public relations job. I want support for legislation". 
.. or something . .. we'd have given it to him. But when all he 
does is come in and say: "I'm the elected head of the 
Acotiteree Osibwa and I don't want any of you guys to 
suggest anything, because I am the head Osibwa"-what the 
hell does thaf mean'! . . . -· 
Robertson with his tactics has nearly wiped out a whole 
generation of Indian leadership. And those men are so dumb 
they don't realize they are being brainwashed and used by an 
opportunist. Webster is one of the nicest and most honest 
men that was ever in tribal government, and Robertson just 
uses him as a puppet, and Webster just can't seem to 
understand that's not his function. To go around 
unthinkingly endorsing whatever Bob Robertson tells him to 
endorse. So there is really a tremendous problem with these 
people. 
Indian Voice: Did you see the discussion on the Dick 
Cavett Show April 20, 1973? 
Deloria: Yes, sure did. 
Indian Voice: Remember, there was a man there named 
Robert Burnett who had been with NCAI formerly but now 
seemed to be moving very close to the position ofBellecourt. 
Deloria: Well, he just said that on camera -I don't think 
he really goes that far ... Apparently last summer he made 
(Over) 
his anti-AIM (American Indian Movement) speech in Rapid City so it's really difficult to tell where he's at. I think he expressed a pretty valid point of view for people who ordinarily would fall in that main stream of support for orderly change, but who are moving toward AIM's position. But a lot of this is the fault of Indians. People doublecross them and they sit there in these meetings without saying a word -afraid to bring it up -afraid its impolite or something. 
Indian Voice: On that panel discussion of Cavetts' there was Fool's Crow and King, (who was interpreting for Fool's Crow) there was Bellecourt, Burnett and Trimble. Among those, which one would you say your position was closest to as it was expressed there. 
Deloria: Trimble.... Because Vernon only deals in rhetoric as far as I can see. 
Indian Voice: Do you think that Trimble and Vernon have the same objectives -it's just that they chose different means of arriving at them? 
Deloria: Well, I think the NCAI objective is fairly clear­to be a watch dog in Washington over legislation, and to try and change Federal policy. The NCAI position is something you can evaluate given any length of timeto see what kind of legislation they are working on and the testimony they give before congress, what meetings they had with senators, you can see their position dearly. What NCAI is trying to do is to propose solutions or adjustments that are going to lay the groundwork for additional change. 

I don't think Vernon has the foggiest idea how you change things. I think the whole AIM syndrome is to dramatize conditions. They do that pretty well, but once you dramatize the conditions and have gotten the people's attention, then you've got to have 2 or 3 times the energy and effort to put into convincing them you have a solution drawn up and your solution is better than anything they have ever thought about. That's my chief complaint with AIM. What they do is to come along and hit people over the head with a baseball ·· 

IMMIGRATION 
OFFICE 
,, PAPERS? N 
-ROBERT FREEMAN 
(Dakota-Mission) 
bat, and the public turns and they say: "OIC and AIM says, "We're here to dramatize th' w Indians", and then they dramatize it three f e co 
necessary, and keep raising all these issue:rnesJo were all on th~ same level of importance. as 
They ma_y thmk they are getting a s~ttlernent of. one mmor issue may be demanded as equally· very major issue. It really screws up their n~rnJ>C? they almost al~ays end up negotiatingamnestyf:r have already done. So where are you? You've rn water so much nobody in congress can figure out hell the Indians are on the war path about. That' thing I find looking over this last year. 8 
I've been to talk with Means and Abourezk planning to talk with E~vin after Watergate's ov~. talks I lay out twenty issues and say "these are where we have to have problems solved." But come ri~ht back ~t you_ wit~ "Well, during the occupation the Indians said this, and during Wo they said that", and its difficult to negotiate. What really done by raising all these issues is to level the1Q same order ofimportance, so that you can't get any going at all. 
Indian Voice: Do you mean, for example, that to treat the honoring ofthe Treaty of 1868 at Woun with the same vehemence as they do whether somebody in Custer S.D. was murdered? 
Deloria: Yes, precisely. In the Custer thing there area of reasonable doubt as to whether you can · white man at all. Apparently the fact ofthe situation the Indian had a bicycle chain, and the white man knife. They were going at it and the white man kill This is far different from the Yellow Thunder thing is an out and out atrocity but they are both treated same weight and breath. 
Take the issues that emerged out of Wounded could have had a solution the second week. It wo been worth it to have that protest if we'd only had two areferendum on the tribal government and the h · the Senate Foreign Relations committee. If we could narrowed all the things to those two points for the m and then arranged a date for the hearings, and started those hearings, then we would have had something. the end of the second week Fullbright was still ame holding the hearings. But when you string the thing seven weeks, and you're making new demands, or them up in a different priority than before, every two or days, you lose it because the people in the Fi Government are just not that smart -they do~'t enough about Indians -all they want to do by th~nlS thing over, so they will give you your major points immediately just to get the thing over. . 
If your only desire is to continue to drarna~ symbolize our problems -by the end you haven t accomplishing anything. This is the big fallacy of Indians realized it symbolized a new era oftrying tor returned and the treaties upheld, but the syrnbo 11 viable during the initial week or so of the proteSt A!' point it has to be somehow translated into sorne irreversible gains or concessions on the part government. . 
If you take the big Alcatraz invasion on the . November 19th, we could have wrapped the whole st up, gotten Title to the Island and a whole lot of Fed;ral to do so by the end of January, but by that next 
-(see pal Wittstock is Editor of the Legislative Review, a


IJll!0 . n of Indian Legal Information Development ,ib~:t(~-LJDS) based in Washington_, D. C.s,,;unveiling of the fiscal year 1974 budget reql!est on 
y29 ofthis year revealed the accuracy ofgrowzng sus­

~ r that the administration is, in fact, initiating major 
Jit"'~s.Most ofthese "reform" proposals are in the social 
= ~s area, where the administration is attempting to es­
,,blish new authorities for aid to education, welfare, and 
,rl,led programs through executive agency action, 
1,fislation, and funding management ofpresent programs. 
71re national press has reported on the reactions of in-1,idual Congressmen to the President's budget request and d,onicled the collective efforts of Congressional members 
clarify the Constitutional roles of the executive and the ltfislative branc~es of this government. As reported in the ,ms, the administration's primary game plan-im­poundment and other means to slow down or transferfunds fromone program to another-has aroused the Congres­Jiona/ ire and the states' resistance to the point of en­_,gering the carefully balanced figures of the budget re­p st. 
Not so thoroughly covered by the press have been the dtonges in funding that have been initiated by the ad­lllinistration without Congressional approval and, in ,pttific instances, without legislative authority. Least rrported on are the specific funding changes in Indian­rrlated federal programs and the recently ended limbo-like llatusof the long-awaited/or millions/or Indian education paued by the Congress last year for a bare-bones amount o/118 million. 
The BIA Ant Colony 

;:;ie first and most obvious changes in the Indian-related 
get fall within the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) budget, some predating the November, 1972, takeover ofthe=~I office building, and reflecting administration "anti­
hon" measures as well as overall administrative rtorganization. lnct~e Hous~ Interior and Insular Affairs Subcommittee on 
ranian Affairs will hold investigatory hearings on a wide Tb ge of BIA functions (and Indian Health) this summer.~:~e senate subcommittee held hearings on financing 
•11th t_ion. May 31, followed by hearings on substance and that o;zations June 1, 4, 12, and in July. Eventuallegislation llipsWI !be affected by these hearings will have to come to lrou ~1th the_ long-standing issues that numerous studythe &,!ave raised concerning the BIA. The proposed role of Arca as technical advisor to the Tribes, the expanded
O

111d th ffices, Interagency councils, the contracting system, e place of the BIA within or outside of Interior 
IND/AN VOICE 11 

Slow-down tactics hinder distribution of much needed funds for Indian programs. 
Department, are all at question. All will affect the funding of the BIA, and, in the immediate instance, will be reflected in the dollar amounts reported out ofthe Appropriations Com­mittees. 
Immediate Questions 

To be resolved before June 30 are: 
•The 
expending of FY 1973 add-on appropriations for the construction of schools near reservations, and the $200,000 set by Congress for the study of BIA's relation to education costs for Indian children attending non-BIA schools. 

•The 
specific funds that can be designated as furthering self­determination. 

•The 
share and responsibility ofthe BIA in funds transferred to the BIA from agencies like the Economic Development Administration and the Department of Agriculture, for functions proposed for dismantlement or decentralization. 

•The 
funds that could reach the BIA in FY 1974 from proposals mentioned in the budget request-including set asides in the Educational Revenue Sharing proposal and proposals for legislation authorizing certain revolving loans and the Indian Business Development Fund-items of longstanding concern to Indians. 


The House hearings on the regular FY 1974 ap­propriations received public witness testimony during the week of May 7, followed by delayed. BIA official testimony on May 14 & 15. The Senate Appropriations Subcommittee for the Interior budget, held open hearings on May 11, but is postponing the BIA witnesses on the basis that there is no BIA Commissioner. 
One major factor in the funding for this fiscal year (1974) will be the structure of the BIA as it evolves from Executive and Congressional action. A legislative proposal for an As­sistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, scheduled for senate hearings July 19-20, 1973, may be one focal point. Other legislative proposals for future directions of Johnson­O'Malley contracts and Development funds will be heard in June. (These include Senator Hemry M. Jackson's (D­Wash) bill, S.1017, and the Administration bills: S.1013, S.1015, and S.1341.) Appropriations changes resulting from any ne'w legislation will not likely be felt until the sup­plemental budgets pass, late in the fiscal year. Congress appears to be interested in Indian legislation this session, as evidenced by Senator Mike Mansfield's (D-Mont) March 6 speech to the Congress, in which he asked consideration of the Interior Committees into the matter of establishing the BIA as an independent executive agency. 
The Vanishing Office of Economic Opportunity 

Another area ofthe budget request that precipitated much action has been the Office of Economic Opportunity (OEO) 
(see page 50) 
IND/AN VOICE 13 
An Indian version of the Battle of the Greasy Grass. 
J 25, Indians will observe the 97th Anniversary of 
C~:, Victory. Mistakenly labeled 'massacre' by whites, :ale of the Little Big Horn was actually a U.S. Army . . of destruction. Colonel John Gibbon is known to ~nld General George Armstrong Custer: "Now don't be d;, Custer, as there are Indians enough for all ofus.") 
Prelude 

1n early Autumn of 1875, a federal Commission, consisting 
members of Congress and other officials, met at the Red 

ud Indian Agency near Fort Laramie, Wyoming. A cit with various Dakota and Lakota chiefs was held to tiate sale and purchase of the Black Hills. Commis­rs offered Indian leaders $6,000,000 for the sacred Paha-Sapa; Indians demanded 600,000,000. Unable to reach favorable compromise, the Con;i.missioners returned to hington recommending the government give the Indians 
n in American Civics. On December 6th, 1875, the Commissioner of Indian Af­
ordered all Indians to report to their respective agencies . 
January 31, 1876, or be declared "hostile". Theorderwas ssary and unrealistic. Harsh winter weather made pliance with the order's deadline next to impossible. , many bands did not even hear ofthe order until after 

January 31st. Only one small band complied and returned to reservation. The federal government wanted to obtain Black Hills and now had an excuse to declare war on the t Sioux Nation . 

.~n March, General George Crook led a punitive expe­on out against the "hostiles". On the morning of the 17th, of his officers, Colonel J.J. Reynolds, came across a II encampment of Northern Cheyenne. These Indians, er the leadership ofChiefTwo Moons, were on their way the reservation in compliance with the Indian Bureau's rto return. Without warning, Colonel Reynolds and his n _attacked the camp in strength. Although taken by nse, the Cheyenne warriors were able to reach nearby swhere they took up a strong defensive position. They 
umed a bl' t . f' f b d h .

. k is ermg ire o ullets an arrows. T e soldiers utc ed and attempted a retreat which quickly became a :ksoon as the Indians were able to mount their horses rtede th~ offensive. In their haste, defeated bluecoats 
l>Cd't' their dead and wounded. Upon return of the n~t~~n to Fort Fetterman, Colonel Reynolds was court­In M and suspended from command for a year. 
testy, __ l876, the United States _of America began its Wrr_i~itary campaign ever waged against the Plains In­in~ e it a total strength of 3,600 men, the Army of the om th Xpec_ted to converge upon Powder River country "h ree_ different directions trapping an estimated 900 to 0stile" Indian warriors in the jaws of a powerful, in-

GALL · HUMP 

Neve,: before had such a large number of warriQrs gathert:d­Crazy Horse, Sitting Bull, Big Road, Gall, Hump, Black Moon, Crow King, Spotted Eagle, Fast Bull, Touch-the-Clouds, Two Moons, Old Bear and the old Santee warrior Inkapaduta. All great warriors, chiefs or medicine men. 
vincible vice. From Fort Ellis, Colonel John Gibbons marched Southeast with 500 men while General Crook marched North from Fort Fetterman 1300 strong. From Fort Abraham Lincoln, General Alfred Terry marched West with 1,207 men followed by 600 men of the 7th Cavalry under command of Lt. Colonel George Armstrong Custer. 
Battle On The Rosebud 

The first American forces to meet the "hostiles" in combat was, appropriately enough, the command of General George Crook. Having successfully conducted campaigns ·against Apaches in the Southwest, Crook was smarting over the humiliation of his troops by Chief Two Moons' Northern Cheyenne three months previous. In addition to five com­panies of the 2nd Cavalry, two of the 4th Infantry, and three of the 9th Infantry, Crook also commanded 266 Crow and Shoshone scouts. 
Unknown to Crook -indeed, unknown to any of the expeditions on the road to the Little Big Horn -was the single most important development which had occurred among the Oglala Lakota. In April, various Oglala bands met in council at Chalk Buttes and agreed their most brilliant war chief should be supreme war chief of the Oglala Lakota. His name was Tishunka Witko (Crazy Horse). 
Born about 1845, Crazy Horse was destined to become one ofthe United States' bitterest foes and one ofthe greatest American Indian leaders. In 1854, while living with his mother's people, in the Brule village of Chief Conquering Bear, Crazy Horse witnessed an incident that white histori­ans remember as the "Gratten Massacre". According to most 
(Over) 
accounts, a young 2nd Lieutenant (history of the Plains is full of young, inexperienced officers) named Gratten, with his twenty-nine men and two howitzers, fired on the Brules killing several Indians and mortally wounding Conquering Bear. The Indians responded by wiping out Gratten and his command. Gratten's pretext for attacking the village was the theft of a single cow. 
After the Gratten incident, young Crazy Horse went to live with his uncle, Chief Spotted Tail. On September 3rd, 1855, General W.S. Harney attacked this innocent village in revenge for the "Gratten Massacre". Three years later, Crazy Horse witnessed another attack by the U.S. Cavalry on a Cheyenne camp on the Solomon River in Kansas. Thus, within a five-year period, the young Oglala had personally seen unprovoked assaults on three different villages by the American Army. 
The war adventures of Crazy Horse began around 1865 when he joined the Cheyenne on the warpath in Colorado. The Cheyenne, in revenge for the massacre of Black Kettle's village at Sand Creek, attacked and destroyed almost every isolated ranch and settlement in Colorado, including the town of Julesburg. Crazy Horse is supposed to have taken part in the second raid on Julesburg in which the settlement was burned to the ground. In July of 1865, he led a band of Oglalas in the rescue of the Loafer Sioux at Horse Creek. Several days later, July 25th, Crazy Horse successfully at­tacked a wagon train and its escort within sight of Fort Laramie. 
In 1866, Crazy Horse distinguished himself in several engagements against the command of Fort Phil Kearny during the War on the Bozeman Trail. His most spectacular success came when he lured Captain William J. Fetterman to disaster. The arrogant Captain boasted that with eighty men he would ride across the whole Sioux Nation. On December 21st, he was given command of eighty-one men to relieve a woodcutting party under attack by Crazy Horse. Crazy Horse and nine warriors tricked Fetterman into attacking them and crossed over the Lodge Ridge Trail, beyond reach of any support from the fort. Fetterman blindly chased Crazy Horse into ambush and within minutes the entire command was wiped out. 
In 1872, the Northern Pacific Railroad began to survey powder River country causing Crazy Horse and Tatanka lyotaka (Sitting Bull) to join forces. They co-ordinated several successful attacks against troops escorting survey teams, and forced them to stop their work. But in June ofthe following year, s_urvey teams returned with a much stronger escort under the command of Colonel D.S. Stanley. Among officers of this expedition was the _commander of the 7th Cavalry, Lt. Col. George A. Custer, who would become known to Indians as Pahuska or Long Hair. During this expedition Crazy Horse and Custer clashed for the first time in several sharp but inconsequential skirmishes. It should be noted that this expedition (and one which fol­lowed two years later) was in clear violation of the six­teenth article of the Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868, which stated no white man could enter unceded Indian Territory without permission of the Indians. 

Except in combat, Crazy Horse had little direct contact with whites. The slaughter of innocent women and children at the hands of soldiers, convinced the Oglala warrior that white invaders were ·riot worthy oftrust or mercy. The attack on the village of Tw6 Moons in March, 1876, was a familiar aspect of Indian-white relations and Crazy Horse invited the Northern Cheyenne to join forces with him. The Cheyenne acce~ted his off er and began moving with the 
0

huntmg grounds known to them as the G 
Various tribes and bands that would eve:tsy upon the Greasy Grass area would be united .uaUy spirit. The selection of Crazy Horse as Sup In P was of major significance in terms ofthe coO::eme experience and tested ability made him a 1ngco
• . 01ost fi

adversary. The consistent pohcy of attaclci villages by the United States Army welded th ng into a dangerous and determined foe. This timee P 
f h. d' ,1n

the nature o t is never-en mg conflict would be 
Learning that Sioux and Cheyenne "hostiles" camped on Rosebud Cr~ek, General Crook set what the Army of the Plams always did on such he would at!ack and decimate t?e enemy. He did t~~t the ln?i~ns had been watching him orthatth tlcipated his mtent10ns. Nor did he realize he wasd tly what Crazy Horse wanted him to do. His total consisted of 1,300 men, officers, civilians and Ind· He would be fighting a force slightly smaller than about_ 9~0 warriors 1;1nder <?razy Horse. Haviog sup~nonty over his Indian adversaries, bei eqmpped and armed, "Three Stars", as the Ind· Crook, was in no way prepared for what happe 
On June 17th, Crazy Horse met Crook in a lo battle on the Rosebud. When Crook's column view the warriors did an un-Indian like thing. They the entire force in a classic cavalry charge! I competing with one another for coups as they us they methodically divided the column by isolaf on the fringes and slaughtering them. Unlike mo battles, where action was usually one big sweep· ment, therefore being predictable, this encounter: became a full-scale assault of the Civil War mod battles seemed to be going on at once. 
What General Crook had intended to be his ma sive action now became a severe defensive enga situation became so desperate he actually lost co his cavalry for two hours! It has been pointed out of his troops panicked or broke anywhere along t entire column would have been annihilated. 
Both sides fought bravely that day. Indiansempl tics the Army of the Plains had always used a · But CrQok had not been expecting to fight that · tie. He expected a sleeping village and antic· inhabitants to flee at the first sounds of gunfire. dians had not fled. Indeed, they were waiting. under the brilliant generalship of Chief Crazy H Lakota and Cheyenne met 1300 American so desperate no-holds barred confrontation and were The Indians carried the fight to the troops and kept sary pressure until the column consolidated its fo remained holding its ground. 
Early in the afternoon, having defeated the in Indians grew tired offighting and went home. Ifthef been so individualistic and more disciplined theyIJll completely wiped out the troops sent to annihila "They were tired and hungry", remembered one years later, "so they went home". The fighting intense but warriors still had time to regress to ~ . plined habits even in the midst of battle. A partlCl the fight named Iron Hawk, a Hunkpapa, recoun incident in 1931: 
"I ran on foot, leading my liorse, who was hop three legs. Then I saw smoke coming out of a 
(o 
IND/AN VOICE 15 



INDIAN ~AMPS: 1-Hunkpapa.2-Min­neconJous 3-No Bows. 4-0glalaa 5-Northern Cheyenne (guest tribe): 6-Brules. ?-Blackfoot Sioux. 8­
. Yanktons. 9-Santees. 
LODGES: 10, 11-Warrior societle guarding council lodge. 12-Great lodge of council (poles 18 ft. long). 
WICKIUPS: Shelters for young warriors. 
CROSSINGS: (a) Ancient lodge trail and buffalo ford. (b) Steep, narrow pony ford. (c) Marshy pony ford. 
CUSTER TROOPS: 1-Calhoun's com­mand. 2-Lt. James Calhoun. 3­
J. J. Crittenden. 4-Capt. M. W. Keough. 5-Keough's Command. 6­Capts. Yates & Custer. 7-Dr. G. E. Lord. 8-Lt. Smith. 9-Custer Hill: Col. George A. Custer (Pahuska), Lts. W. W. Cooke, A. E. Smith 
W. V. W. Reily and Capt. T. W. Custer nearby. 10-Sgt. Butler. 

re was a creek. I went over to the smoke, and there 
th

ee Lakotas who had killed a bison and were having a ,ere tl_lr~t there while all the fighting was going on over the ~ rig y invited me, so I sat there and ate, for I was about lliJl. 'fhe years old and I was always hungry. We had to watch rourt~e we ate. One of the men took some clotted blood c,0t" be bison and put it in some raw bison hide and frOlll ~ it around my pony's hoof so I could ride. ,-en r we had been eating there a long time, a Lakota 
•Af:p on his horse ~ith}lood and dirt al_l over his fa~e, ~ was angry. He said: What areyoudomghere?We re ,od .e I All you think of is to eat! Why don't you think filhtl;fhe helpless ones at home? Come, make haste! We a),OU ot to stand our ground!" Ill~ fett ashamed, so I got on my horse and we started. My 
could go better with his hoof tied up that way. We 

bOfSC to a ridge, and I could see all over the valley of the 
~bud where the fighting was going on. You could not tell 
ose was getting whipped. It looked all mixed up. Some : ws attacked us there and I never got to the big party that 1'15 doing the hard fighting~ bu~. it was bad enough where I was except when I was eatmg.
fu spite of occassional lapses, the Lakotas accomplished a gnificent job of fighting fire with fire. Crook was so badly 

111 
t,eaten that his entire column remained immobilized from June 19th to August 5th. The Indians fared well not only for Ibis battle but for the entire campaign. Crook, busy licking bis wounds and trying to analyze what happened, would not be available one week later. More important, the forces of Terry, Gibbons and Custer did not know Crook would not be there. 
The grand strategy of the campaign was to trap the "hos­tiles"between three military movements of the Army of the Plains. General Terry ordered Colonel Gibbon's column to takethe field on June 21st, and Custer moved the 7th out one day later. Gibbons and Custer were expected to reach the little Big Horn on June 26th. They anticipated that Crook would be there too. If everything went according to plan, the Indians would have to surrender or face the possibility ofan­nihilation. The plan seemed foolproof providing everyone RIJ)Ceted its timing. And therein lies the key to the greatest military disaster suffered by the United States in the West. 
A Good Day To Fight 

~ile the Army ofthe Plains prepared itself for doing bat­tle With the "hostiles", various hunting bands and tribes began to converge upon the area where federal troops Clpected to entrap and destroy them. Indians called it the :UCYof the Greasy Grass, whites called it the Little Big ~rn_. Soo~ every citizen ofthe United States would know of_J1ttle Big ~om and of I~dians now making camp on the 
~ of the nver from which the valley got its name. ther; Indian camp was one ofthe largest ever assembled on tuna estern plains. An exact count is unknown, but es­Ind :CS generally agree that about 1,500 lodges, wickiups cl th emporary shelters were stretched along the western side &nineGreasy <?rass River. (So named due to slippery grass ltaVeg much of its shoreline. -Ed.) The camp is estimated to <Ith been three miles long. It contained about 12,000 people; lat:: 2,500 to 3,000 were warriors. They represented every ~ hand Dakota band plus some Northern Cheyenne and ~~ oe. P~incipal leaders of the assembled bands were ~r;~w Km~ and Sitting Bull of the Hunkpapas, Hump, l't,0 M the Mmneconjous, Spotted Eagle ofthe Sans Arcs, SnPretnooWns of the Nortnern Cheyenne, and Crazy Horse, 
e ar Chief of the Oglala Lakota. 
IND/AN VOICE 17 

It was about 12:07 in the afternoon of June 25, 1876 when Lt. Colonel George Armstrong Custer brought his regiment, the 7th Cavalry, to a halt at the headwaters of Ash Creek. (Since renamed Reno Creek.) Turning to his adjutant, Lt. William W. Cooke, he quickly divided his 637 men and a pack train into three combat battalions. He gave orders to the effect that the battalion under the command of Captain Frederick W. Benteen would proceed Southwest to find In­dians to attack in the next valley. 
The battalion under the command of Major Marcus Reno crossed the creek and maintained a parallel course with Custer's Battalion. Reno had 112 soldiers plus several civilians and about 25 Indian scouts while Custer had 225 men. Both battalions followed the course of Ash Creek until about 2:10 P.M. when they approached a solitary tipi con­taining the body of a dead Lakota warrior on a scaffold. The Arikara scouts quickly burned the tipi to the ground. 
Just then, Frarik Girard, a civilian-interpreter noticed a large dust cloud across the Little Bighorn River about five miles away. "Here are your Indians," he said to Custer, "run­ning like devils." Custer then ordered his Indian scouts after the fleeing warriors but they refused. Custer then turned to Cooke and advised him take an order to Reno. 
"General Custer directs that you take as fast a gait as you deem prudent," the adjutant told Reno. "Charge the Indian village. You will be supported by the whole outfit." 
Reno then proceeded westward following the creek until it joined the Greasy Grass. He forded the river and prepared his men to attack the southern end of the Indian en­campment. In the meantime, Custer turned his battalion northward and rode along at a gallop in order to attack the Indians from the opposite direction. 
When the people in the encampment were sure the village would be attacked, the warriors rallied to their respective leaders and prepared a counteroffensive. Women and children were herded into the main camp while some of the warriors began riding back and forth to screen it in a dust cloud. (Many years later Black Elk, an Oglala Holy Man, would recall the first time he was aware ofwhite soldiers was when a Lakota crier ran through the village shouting, "The Chargers are coming! They are charging! The Chargers are coming!") 
About 500 warriors rode out to meet Reno's assault while the rest prepared to greet Custer. Sitting Bull made a short speech to the young men in camp: "Warriors, we have everything to fight for, and if we are defeated, we shall have nothing to live for; therefore, let us fight like brave men." (Sitting Bull, completely exhausted from a Sun Dance in which he induced a vision of victory over the bluecoats, ad­vised Crazy Horse how best to proceed. He then rode to a high plateau overlooking the encampment, and while praying to Wakantanka, watched his vision become reality. -Ed.) Gall's speech to the warriors meeting Reno was even shorter: "Take courage! Don't be a woman! The helpless are out of breath!" 
It was about 3:05 P.M. when Reno began his advance toward the village on the Greasy Grass. His three companies charged down toward the encampment but he could not see the camp's real size because ofthe dust screen. Suddenly, out of the dust cloud, emerged Gall and his screaming warriors charging to meet Reno. Within minutes the Battalion retreated. Braves chased Reno and his men across the river killing or wounding at least half the wasichu troops. 
Leaving at least 400 warriors to hold Reno where he was, Gall returned to the camp to lead another group of warriors 
(Over) 
against Custer's Battalion. About the time Reno first began his advance on the village, Custer saw the encampment for . the first time and gained an idea of its true size. He immediately sent a messenger back to get Benteen and the pack train in order to reinforce his own command. About 
3:25 P.M., Custer saw the village again and this time he was certain he would need extra men. He gave an order to Cooke who wrote it out and had a trumpeter, John Martin, deliver it to Benteen. The message read: 
Benteen -Come on. Big village. Be quick. Bring packs. 
W.W. Cooke. 
P.S. Bring Packs. 
Custer then followed the ridge until he came to Medicine Tail Creek. He char.e;ed directly toward the camp, butjustas he reached the marshy area of the Greasy Grass, Gali directed .a mass assault. This not only checked Custer's ad­vance but actually forced the ill-fated battalion to fall back and change course. Meantime, Crazy Horse was leading Oglala, Cheyenne and Arapahoe warriors to the camp's northernmost extreme to prevent Custer from fording the river and attacking the camp. 
"Today is a good day to fight," Crazy Horse shouted to his warriors at the Greasy Grass. "Today is a good day to die! Cowards to the rear; Lakotas, follow me!" With that the young Oglala chief charged across the river, his warriors forming a wedge behind him. Custer was now caught in the steel jaws of a vice! Gall was behind the battalion and Crazy Horse was in front of it. Companies Land I were wiped out by Gall's warriors while Crazy Horse hit the remaining three companies with the force of a cyclone. 
The last of Custer's battalions rallied around their com­mander on a high ridge since named Custer Hill. In desperation, troopers shot their horses to use as breastworks while swirling masses ofIndians steadily finished off soldiers not protected within the immediate circle. Many wasichus never had a chance. Some had been caught in ravines and killed by warriors firing down from the slopes. Others were simply picked off by marksman as they attempted to run away. In the end, there were only those on the hill with Custer, firing as fast as they could reload. Eventually, warriors rode over the crest of the hill, until the ridge was swarming with masses of men, struggling in hand combat. There, amid choking dust and smoke 0;t%s Custer's Battalion stood and fought and died. ' e to 

But the Battle of the Greasy Grass was far from the time Gall was hurrying over to fight Custer :;er. having found no Indians to attack as he had bee~ :t
0 

attempted to catch up w!th. Custer and Reno. Abo~te~ 
P.M. or so, he met Custer s first messenger and two mi · later he met a second messenger with the note from C nu Rushing to Custer's rescue, he came across Reno'soo · around 4:25 P.M. They had entrenched on the side of a hill. Reno ran out to meet Ben teen and pleaded: "For God's Ben teen, halt your command and help me. I've lost half 
01

men!" 
When shooting from the Indians began to slack off men on the hill heard gunfire from a distance, indica · another battle. Captain _Thomas B. ~eir led a compan of troops to the top of a hill about a mtle from their previo position for observation purposes. Benteen followed ·th three more companies to give support, but Reno sta behind waiting for the pack train. On the hill, Weir and Benteen could see a battle taking place about four mil the north. 
When Reno and his men were rejoined by the pack train, he led them up the hill where all the forces could be reunit . While they were on the hill, however, a large number of warriors attacked, forcing the soldiers to withdraw to th 
· former positions. Indians then completely encircled t troops. Throughout the night warriors kept the soldi pinned down while troopers worked digging trenche a building defense works. 
Throughout the next day, there were minor skirmis here and there, but Lakota scouts reported a large mili column approaching from the north. It was General l and Colonel Gibbon with some I, 700 men plus artillery. In­dians in the great village began to fold tipis and herd po · together while warriors withdrew from the seige on the hill. By dusk, the entire encampment had disappeared and Battle of the Greasy Grass was history. 
-ROBERT ANDREW MEI 
(Choctaw-Chero 


A ril 18 1959 was a warm, summer­

~ay in' Rock Hill, South Carolina. :etbe 15,000 residents of the town, the dJ was normal, but to the 300 or more dtawba Indians, it was a hushed .,1,ering day. Their chief for some 20 
had died just before noon. ~ief Samual Taylor Blue had been suffering from cancer of the stomach for months. At his home on the reservation, s died quietly in his bed. Tribal members immediately heard the news. Many set aside their chores to visit the family. Catawba children were taken out of schools, and many of the em­ployed men left their jobs for the afternoon. 
During his 85 years of life, Chief Blue ns the recognized leader of his tribe from 1931 until the day he died, a span ci28 years. Four years earlier in 1955, be proudly said, "I was elected chief by YOtes; I didn't inherit it." 
As chief of his tribe, he became widely known for his efforts as tribal represen­tative to the local, state and federal governments. During those years the Catawbas were under federal control. Toward the end of his life and !e8dership, he pushed for tribal independence, which was not realized until after his death. 
In addition to his tribal duties he was ID authority on Catawba tribal ~itions. He supplied much folk lore :_nnation to researchers who came to In 1947 he related Catawba legends ~Dr. Frank G. Speck and L.G. Carr, 0 published them that same year. He ::also_ a source for a Catawba history 
~Wntten by Jane D. Brown in 1958. lllircthough Chief Blue had many ad­ltali~ for his leadership, the harsh tincdy of hi's life was that he was des­Ian to be the last to speak the Catawba M:a~e ~nd practice traditional ways. fact •gnificant of his death was the sad tract·~hat it marked an end to tribal
o:i ~ns, language, and identity.
Chier 8t1°ber 19, 1965, six years after Ue's death, his daughter-in-law, 
Doris Blue, expressed the situation of the tribe. She said: 
"Albert Sanders was the only chief that we had since Chief Blue's death. 
"About 250 Indians live here on the old reservation. The others have moved to different towns nearby. Some have moved to other states. Just about one­haff of the Indians still have the land that was assigned to them. The rest sold theirs or lost it through mortgages and other bad debts. 
"There is no one here now that speaks or would understand the Catawba language. Only a few of the older women make the pottery any more. I still make it. I have pipe molds that are four generations old." 
Thus as Mrs. Blue indicated, the Catawbas had one lingering tradition in 1965. That was the art of making pottery. Other traditions and even language dating back to Columbus' day were no longer seen or heard among the Catawbas. 
For six or more centuries the Catawbas lived in the area of Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina. Their ancestors are said to have migrated from the north in about the 15th century. History books say they left their homeland south east of the Great Lakes as a result of tribal conflicts with the Iroquois Indians. Through studies made of their language, scholars have put the Catawbas as being related to the Sioux Indians. They spoke a similar language. 
The Catawbas followed the Ohio river South to Kentucky, where the group separated. One group went west across the Mississippi river to establish the Osage Tdbe and the other went east toward Virginia. They were the ances­tors of the Catawbas. From Virginia they went south and scattered themselves into small groups across the southwestern United States. When the whitemen came in the 16th century the 
IND/AN VOICE ·19 
A frightening case history of the Catawba assimilation. 
Catawbas numbered more than 20 
tribes. 
Their first contact with the whiteman was with the Spanish explorers who came through their country from the south. In 1540 Hernando De Soto came from Florida, crossed through the Catawba country to Tennessee and went west toward Arkansas. Other explorers such as Juan Pardo, John Lederer and John Lawson traveled through Catawba country in the 17th and 18th centuries. 
Following the explorers, who in­troduced them to settlers along the coast, the Catawbas turned to trading with the English settlements along the 
.Virginia and North Carolina coasts. Their principle trade came in pelts and furs of moose, elk, beaver, bear, otter, wildcat, fox and later rice. 
As soldiers, Catawba men were called to bear arms with the English during the French and Indian War and with the colonies-during the Revolutionary War. They sided with the Confederates during the Civil War. Catawbas also served in World War I and World War 
II. 
In 1840 the Catawba signed a treaty with the State of South Carolina. That paved the way for South Carolina to purchase Catawba land and remove them. 
In 1842, many other southeastern In­dians were being relocated to the west and some 500 Catawbas joined the Cherokees, who were being sent to Oklahoma. From the original 500, about 300 went west with the Cherokees. Most of the remaining 200 were adopted by rebellious Cherokee holdouts, who hid in the Smokey Mountains. Some drifted back to South Carolina to their old homeland. About 60 Catawbas settled on a 600-acre plot near the present town of Rock Hill. 
It was out ofthis heritage that Samual Taylor Blue was born on August 15, 1872 on the 600-acre reservation in York 
(see page 48) 

Aftermath of the shooting confront on the Pine Ridge Reservation. 


(Richard La Course is News Director for the American Indian Press Association in Washington, D. C., and per­sonally attended Wounded Knee during its takeover. This in-depth article is the second to appear in Indian Voice (See April 1973) and traces the developments and conclu­sion of the armed crisis. 
For Indians and for others as well, the name Wounded Knee has now taken on another meaning and another com­plex legend following the militant seizure of this tiny Indian village. That new legend is now a legend compounded of the deaths of at least two men, prolonged hunger at the winter's end, cascading gunfire and flares-in the night, a knowledge of the imminence of death by surprise, the escalation of protest to the point of arms, and the certainty of a series of protracted trial for unknown numbers of Indians young and old. 
It is also a new Oglala Sioux tribal legend of the straining of a tribal society to its ultimate limits, the testing of a form of government and a measure ofits leadership, the trying ofa tribe in the fire of continuing crisis. 
Was the seizure of the poorest village on the 1.6 million acre Oglala Sioux Reservation the opening salvo of a genuine and broadly based Indian revolution within the United States, as some believed? Or was it, as others claimed, a desperate and rash action by a small band of activists finally backed against the wall by local and federal law en­forcement authorities bent on doing to Indian militants what they had earlier succeeded in doing to the Black Panthers? Only time will tell. 
Occupation Begins 
In a lightning strike in early evening Feb. 27, about 250 In­dians of various ages had seized this famous but im­poverished village, set up an armed Indian defense encircling about 40 acres of Oglala Sioux land, and for the next two days reportedly held 11 hostages who were then freed to leave. They came to Wounded Knee, they said, because the federal government had turµed a deaf ear to them after they had gone by caravans along the Trail of Broken Treaties to the nation's capital to bring Indian mistreatment to the public eye. This time, they said, the federal government would have another chance to listen. 
FBI agents and U.S. marshals meanwhile, who had earlier been called to America's second largest reservation by the Tribal Council to protect the Bureau of Indian Affairs facility and its valuable documents against a supposed threat from the American Indian Movement (AIM), immediately threw up a federal defense perimeter about a mile outside the militant defense line. At the end of February there was no moon, and there were shots and secret movements and brilliant flares in the night. 
Federal forces moved in mobile armored carriers (A~Cs) w~ich_ held about four heavl; marshals apiece, stat10nmg them at all points ofthe co around the occupied village. FBI and marshals also roadblocks on all points of access into the tiny hamlet of 52 homes, a museum and trading post, a~ churches and a post office. (AIM's perimeter in this community, consisted of two churches, a mus;um, a post and about a half-dozen homes most of which owned by non-Indians-Ed.) 
Inside the village area there were at least five separate definable groups of Indian people. First to arrive members of AIM, an intertribal activist social organization, and members of the newly created Sioux Civil Rights Organization (OSCRO). This. formed just after the turn of the year from amona poverished and landless Oglalas who live like squatters outsiders' community called Oglala near the r center of Pine Ridge. 
It was OSCRO which had invited AIM onto reservation. 
The third Indian group consisted of some ofthe long-time residents of Wounded Knee village who chose to support purposes of the occupation by staying inside rather tba leaving as they were encouraged to do. The fourth group consisted of unaffiliated Vietnam veterans who joined occupying force to protect Indian lives rather than to mab any political protest. The fifth identifiable group consistedal Indians arriving from all over the country, usually in sinp cars, some of whom were able to walk into the village undlr cover of night to support the takeover. 
Federal agents of the U.S. Justice Dep immediately seized control of the reservation from 
the ficially elected tribal leaders. FBI and marshals crea highly sophisticated command post in the BIA headq in Pine Ridge 17 miles away. And they let it be knoWII both tribal and BIA officials that the latter were no lo charge of anything. BIA and tribal police from manyn reservations were ordered in. Nebraska and South D state patrolmen monitored the flow of traffic in the W parts of their states, established automobile check and began prohibiting most Indian travelers from er the reservation for any reasons whatsoever. 
In the nation's capihal, as the occupation continu~ Justice Department invoked a 1967 ordinance fo~b~d persons to cross state lines to aid and abet "civil turbances." Originally enacted during the black revolt of sixties, this time around it was applied against I bearing medicines and food who were stopped at points around the country and arrested. There were re 
IND/AN VOICE 21 







of plans to transport arms, for Which five Indians are curren­
tly indicted. Supportive demonstrations for the occupation 
occurred in nearly every major city across the nation, and 
messages of support came from many points around the 
globe. 

The takeover happened at a time when the Oglala 
reservation itself was in a particular moment of 
vulnerability. Tribal President Richard A. Wilson, elected in 
winter 1971 for a two-year term, only the week before the 
takeover had weathered an attempt to oust him from office 
on nine separate counts of misconduct. He was kept in office 
by a majority of 14 out of 20 votes of the full council, but his 
political opponents decried the procedures used and a 
number of tribesmen believed their constitution had not 
been observed in the proceedings. 

Factionalism and fissures among the tribe also made it 
vulnerable in a time of high controversy. Long-standing 
divisions among full-bloods and mixed-bloods, property­
owners and the poor, working and welfare-clients, lan­
downers and landless Indians opened with sharp and stun­
ning clarity. Old problems merged and. mushroomed in the 
new crisis. 

The 11,500 reservation residents themselves became in­
creasingly divided in their views of the takeover and its pos­
sible local effects. A vigilante mood of terror emerged in 
many communities scattered across the expansive prairies. 
Most homes were heavily armed against . unpredictable 
threats, and rifles and other handguns appeared in vehicles, 
particularly at night. The system of the reservation's social 
order was stretched to the breaking point. Supporters of the 
tribal president, locally labeled "Dickie Wilson's Goon 
Squad," threatened to oust the occupiers by force, but they 
themselves lived with the threat of unknown reprisals. 
Human ties which held the Oglala society together were at 
the very point of collapse. · 

Days stretched into weeks, the weeks eventually stretched 
into over two months as the occupiers and their federal 
counterparts entered into off-again on-again talks. On its 
side, the occupiers wanted the government to undertake a 
review of all the undeniably broken treaties between Indians 
and the Unihed States. They demanded a probe into the 
delivery of services for the nation's Indian peoples. And 
particularly in relation to conditions on the reservation they 
demanded the ouster of the tribal president, the BIA 
superintendent and area director, and remedies for long­
standing reservation problems. 

The federal government proved unwilling to view the 
takeover as anything but a law enforcement problem, willing 
only to use its lawmen as negotiators with the persistent oc­
cupiers. As the weeks dragged by, however, Interior 
Department delegates appeared on the scene. Federal 
negotiators came and went with the regularity of musical 
chairs. 
Agreement Reached 

After two abortive attempts to reach agreements on March IO and April 5, terms for a final accord were reached on the weekend of May 5-6. A series of meetings were set between Teton chiefs and headmen and their colleagues and· the five White House representatives under the terms of a White House offer made May 4 by a special letter from Presidential Counsel Leonard Garment to the occupiers of the tiny Sioux village. Formal evacuation agreements, in­cluding the laying down of arms, were reached the following day. 
The five-member White House party included Bradley F. Patterson Jr., executive assistant to Garment in the White House; Charles M. Soller, acting associat . 
. D t d . . eso
Intenor epar ment an spec1ahst on trib Craig A. Decker, trial lawyer for the Justice tco an expe~ on the 1868 Sioux Treaty; Leslie N of the tnbal government section of the Bur · fairs (BIA); and Barbara Greene Kilberg ;:of sultant and attorney. Principal Sioux ~ te with the White House group were Vernon ~rn the Oglala Sioux Civil Rights Organiza~~& Louis Bad Wound, representing the r ton reservation Coalition for Better Governrn~n Frank Fools Crow~ traditional leader of th:~~ 
A~ter the chantmg of the Sioux National sunrise May 8, about 125 remaining occupie themselves to federal authorities in three : groups. Federal authorities then swooped d village, probed the area for arms and ex: monitored the reentry of residents. A poten crisis had been resolved, or at least wound down, spilling of enormous amounts of blood. 
Reactions on the part of the occupation Wounded Knee, chief negotiators for government, the legal counsel for the Am 
Movement (AIM), and Bureau of Indian differed sharply as the orderly evacuation ofW proceeded without incident. 
Following are major points of view ofprinci volved: 
Dennis J. Banks, AIM nationalfield-coordi° 
reviewed the agreement which has been signed. I find that the document falls outside 
of the U.S. Constitution and its amen however, submit to the arms lay-down because headmen have agreed that otherwise it might. Washington meeting. Also I agree that AI 
here. It must be understood that AIM was these Oglalas in their struggle against repressi've forces. It was tragic that we lost two bro against those same forces." 
Richard Hellstern, deputy assistant U.S. 
government has "learned some lessons from W, The confrontation was primarily a law enfo that needed swift police response. You can't people like this and negotiate." 
Kent Frizell, Interior Department Solicitor: (in the village) was wanton. You lose any soever for their cause or self-proclamatio 
Ramon Roubideaux, chief AIM legal Wounded Knee occupation was a historic think the main concern to myself and to othd this took the life of two Indians and wound well as two U.S. officers." Roubideauxsaid tinue to demand the repeal ofthe IndianReo (IRA) of 1934 which created el. governments in the place of traditional tn it is not replaced," warned Roubideaux, Wounded Knees." 
Marvin L. Franklin, special Interio~ pe. on Indian affairs: "I oppose violent m1li not bring about the intended change but
·1· tlll
resistance to that change. I am a ~1 1tan is defined as not being satisfied with the Oglala Sioux Constitution was adopted of the Indian Reorganization Act and the 
. . n 
was established under that consututio · 
IND/AN VOICE 23 

S ptember of 1878, Little Wolf and Morning Star led la ~hern Cheyennes on a 1500 mile flight from captivity o:1ahoma to return to their tribal h<?meland along the e River in Montana. They had httle food and few or guns. It was soon winter on the open plains and ;ds came. Many of the 278 Cheyennes froze to death. yothers were annihilated by 10,000 U.S. Cavalrymen out to hunt them down and slaughter them. Yet "bly, those who survived went on and on and Uy reached the Tongue River country. Neither in history, nor in any history is there a greater tale of 
and fortitude than theirs as documented by Mari ozin "CHEYENNE AUTUMN". 
beyond even the awe of their courage and the panying feeling of tragedy, there was an added touch · story -one almost unheard of in the history of People -it had a happy ending. (Or, at least, an that was as happy as possible for people conquered confined by an alien power.) The Cheyennes were · to remain in their own country. It is, therefore, a rly anticlimatic twist to tragedy that after all this time rthern Cheyennes face both the imminent destruction · reservation, and even their own extinction as Indian . Having survived the U.S. Cavalry, they now face an 
more implacable and ruthless enemy: strip mining. 
first glance, strip mining would appear as much a for all the inhabitants ofthe Northern Plains area as for the Cheyennes. Due to the pressures of the energy and_the fact of the ready abundance ofcoal close to the m Montana and Wyoming, mammoth coal _haye been pressuring and lobbying for rights to this situation. Recently their efforts have redoubled the possibility, by means of gasification plants, to the coal into utility power. At first they were Clonly by conservation organizations such as the ub, but later, concerned citizens have formed a . of organizations to try to save the environment. ::n regar~i~g the near impossibility of land lan after mmmg, and drastic lowering of the water nds already short of water has been spread to Americans by sources as diverse as the University 
Itri ' ~n~ the poet, Wilbur Wood, in his fine poem Pmmmg in the Bull Hills .. 


Upshot Of 11 .
f a this was passage, by the State of A~t a~ Ener_gy Conversion Facility Citing COal ~This a~t stipulates that before a company can to th A0 nvers~on plant they must first apply for a th:ir Uth0nty two years in advance, and pay a fee t P~oposed capital investment. The Authority ~td;es to determine the social, economic and e fects of the operation. and then issues or 

Stripmining interests threaten to liquidate the last refuge of the Northern Cheyenne Nation. 
denies the permit. This is not only a costly and time con­suming process for the avaricious combines, but is further a near embargo on their prospects since the granting of a permit, after such studies have been made, is not likely because of the immense distructiveness and pollution ofstrip mining. Therefore, concerns such as Peabody and Consol have turned to Indian Reservations where, according to cur­rent precedence at least, state regulation does not apply. And of all the Montana reservations, none is so rich in potential coal production as that ofthe Northern Cheyennes or Tongue River. 
(The case of Davis vs. V. S. pending in a Southwest court raises the question of whether state regulations apply to Indian reservations. If it is decided in the affirmative, it could save the situation at Tongue River, or at least afford time for further study. But it is still deep in process and danger to the Cheyenne homeland remains imminent.) 
The greatest threat to Cheyenne survival lies not from without, but from within. They suffer the usual consequences of Indian confinement which are poverty, apathy and ignorance. But even without the advantages of their Caucasian neighbors in allaying strip mine operations, the Cheyennes could prevent the coal combines from exploiting their land if they were to present a concerted and united front. However, due to the three consequences mentioned above, it is extremely difficult for them to achieve this kind of unity. 
(Over) 


~ 
p 
,..... 
~ ~ 
. 
Wyoming .• 

SHERIDAN• .
.
.
. 

As on most Indian reservations, problems of poverty and unemployment pervade the peoples' minds. Timber and cattle are the principle inqustries, yet of the 1,100 member work force only about 250 are employed. Since the Peabody Coal Company lease purports ( on the surf ace) to provide not only potential employment, but also $1,000 per capita income in exchange for the strip mining destruction of 16,000 acres of land, the incentive is great. Further, even the best informed people on the reservation know of no concrete economic alternatives to the general problem ofpoverty and unemployment. 
All large leases for use ofland on Indian reservations must be negotiated with the current tribal council of that reservation. In general, these are composed of men whose principal concern at best is maintaining their own position (as with most politicians) and at worst, with lining their own pockets. The first effect of public Indian apathy lies in the election of these officials. In the last election at Tongue River, of 1500 eligible voters only about 600voted. Ofthese, many are alleged to have been influenced by illegal and unscrupulous means (a law suit challenging that election is now in process). Indian People often feel that voting is an alien process. They want to disassociate themselves from it, while others simply believe it makes no difference anyway so why bother. 
The second effect of public apathy lies in the reaction to efforts by the Northern Cheyenne Landowners Association to inform and advise people to the dangers of strip mining. Currently, the reservation is about evenly divided for and against the mining. Due to a prevelent attitude that it is up to the BIA to decide these things, it has been difficult for the Landowners Association, a very a ware and energetic organization, to organize the people to protect their heritage. 

The problem of ignorance has pervaded the situation from the beginning, and from top to bottom. In 1966 the Peabody Company, after receiving an exploration permit earlier, negotiated a ten year lease from the Tribal Council to strip mine. The Council, unaware of the legalities involved, consulted the BIA who, despite absense ofa requisite impact statement from the company, recommended acceptance. Without further ado, the Council and the BIA granted the Peabody lease. This was the same kind of BIA sellout of Indian lands that occurred in the Black Mesa situation at Four Corners. Similarly, the Tribal Council knew little or no~hing of what they were letting their people in for. But as a result of the lease at Tongue River, the Peabody Company can mine at will so long as they commence within the ten year period stipulated in the lease. (Fortunately, due to subsequent events, as of this writing they have not yet begun to mine.) 
The first of these events was the beginning of the infiltrationinto the reservation of current environmentalist knowledge about the effects of strip mining. This not only created qualms on the part of the current tribal council, but also the organization of the afore mentioned Landowner~' Association. In the interim, exploration permits had been l granted by· the Council to Consol (Consolidated Coal Company) for two years. The nature of this permit enables the company to explore mining possibilities for two years with an automatic extension of two more years plus automatic granting of a· ten year lease should the company's exploration prove satisfactory to them. However, the current Council, having ascertained that impact statements are required before granting of such permits is legal, (and since no such impact statements were given) has passed a resolution asking the BIA to cancel all explo While this resolution is pending, all permit ac~t~on 
suspended. Fortunately, Peabody has presumably awaiting events. However, the Peabody Company's lease fo still has three years before expiration and c~ their permits (pending the decision on resolution) to explore 227,000 of the reserv:f Co 437,000 acres. This acreage represents 56% of th:~n's are~ of th: ~orthern Cheye_nne Reservation. Wri~tal their permit is a clause grantmg the right to lease htea company wish to exercise it before the expirati' s 
. Th h'l h 1 ·
~ermi_t. us, w_ i e t e reso utton to cancel could situation, there 1s currently no firm evidence that it \'t accepted by the BIA. As a result the reservation is •1'ill jeopardy. 
The threat from Peabody is that they could start 
_operations immediately .. To halt them would . injunction plus other legal processes for which t~UIII and the Land Owners' Association are ill PfCJ)arecl undertake. They have neither the resources nor fi However, the real threat is from Consol. Should the::-­to get a lease and start mining, over half the reservationtea1,. tory would be lost. Worse still, Consol intends to conwrt gas, for which purpose they project building gasification plants ( the number required to make this kind operation profitable). This action would result in po of the reservation. 
Right now, after one hundred years of captivity acculturation, the Cheyenne have to fight to maintain culture. With the coming of trailer towns and trailer psychology, one of the loveliest reservations in the COIIIIIIJ would be turned into a spoil pile. During thirty projec:W years of mining activity, spoil piles of tailings would 1,ea physical reality. Then, after-the Whites left, there woaM remain only the ghost towns. 
Consol, with its permit to halt the reservation, is 
not only threat in this direction. They have just requested additional 90,000 acres for gasification plants for Nortbn Natural Gas. This utility company also has a contract convert the Peabody coal into gas, which would require more plants. But further, Northern itself is seetill reservation acreage to build its own gas plants Monmouth Generators close to the coal sources. If al these projects are realized, the Cheyenne would be cro together into a shanty town at the edge of their reservation on the few last remaining acres! 
The practice of projecting large trailer towns of worblll into previously undersettled areas by coal combines WU a plague expecially cooked up for Indian reservatiom. Coalstrip, Montana, only thirty miles north of Lame IW (capital of the reservation) and at Gillette, Wyoming, ninety miles to the south, workers were moved into. towns without the slightest modicum of social pla~ ecological study. The result is that Gillette has the ~ suicide rate of any town in the country for Whites!::. Indian suicide rate already two or three times the LIii' average, one can imagine the effect of a Gillette at Deer. 
With all this being the case, readers may wonder hoW Tribal Council or the Cheyenne people could ever ~n the idea of granting a lease to these monsters of ind Unfortunately, as indicated earlier, poverty, apathY ignorance of what is involved in a stripmining 0 
(see 


ressman Charles Gubser has represented the people 

Co~Kornia's 10th Congressional District in the U.S. House 
of~ ~~sentativesfor twenty years. The 10th Congressional 
of. ef, covers the southern half ofthe Santa Clara Valley 
l)istrlC · d 1 d. l . b
rthi h has an estimate n zan popu atwn etween seven.,J,enthousand. I~ t~is interview Congressman Gubser, a RtfJublican, gives his views on the ~ounde~ Knee takeover; OEO Pyramid Lake, the American Indzan Movement, Ci n;ress, Watergate, and President Nixon's use of :ecutive privilege". The views expressed here by ~ngressman Gubser are not "!-ecessar~ly the views_ ofhis In­dian constituents or Indian V01ce magazine. The Congressman was interviewed in San Jose, California, in 
April, 1973. 
Gubser: You know, we have a lot more Indians in this area than people realize. If you listen to people you begin to think that the Blacks and the Chicanos are the only minorities in die area. Seldom do you hear Indians mentioned and they area pretty sizable group. Ofcourse, to be honest with you, I tind of hate the word "minority". I like to think of everyone u part of a great majority. 
lthink its important to the Indian people that they become involved in the Republican Party because too often so-called minority groups tend to gravitate to the Democratic Party. They get the idea that all of their welfare and their best interests are stored up in the Democratic Party. They're pretty short-sighted when they reason that way because, to speak bluntly, I think the Democrats get to taking the minorities for granted. This is a two-party system, it is bi­partisan, and I think that any group that wants to exert a proper influence on national policy has an obligation to go along on a bi-partisan sense and be in both parties. That's in the best interest of Indian people, the Chicano people and the Blacks. If they confine themselves to one party and don't CXert_their influence in both parties they're mi~sing a bet. ThIS sounds kind of crude but I really think that as long as "have the two-party system in this country Americans ~ght t~ play both sides ofthe street. You know I'm a violent ~P.ubhcan but I'm not enough of a blind partisan that Itbt: ~espec~ the other party. I do. I disagree with them but I 
~ _its very essential to have two points of view. Arned~an Voice: What is your reaction to the activities ofthe Da.. ncan Indian Movement at Wounded Knee, South 
a.Ota? 
~ubser: Well, as oiie who does not come from the area, ,_! one who does not pretend to be an expert on Indian af­
1«1rs I'm · f
opin~ gomg to give you my off-the-top-o -my-head bcii }~ and I could be very, very wrong. My own personal ffo:id Is that the solution to the Wounded Knee problem dians be for the federal marshals to withdraw and let the In-Who are legitimately representative of the people in 
b 
IND/AN VOICE 25 

A California Congressman's views on Indian Matters and the Watergate scandal. 
Wounded Knee take over. I think that they would settle the thing themselves. But the presence ofthose marshals prevent them from doing that. 
All that I've heard, and I've talked to people that I think know what they're talking about, all that I've heard is that the people of the A-1-M movement at Wounded Knee are not representative of the people there. I don't think they're even members of that particular tribe. They're just interlopers who are intent upon rabble-rousing and causing trouble just as they did at the Bureau of Indian Affairs sit-in. I don't think those people did the Indians of the country any good at all. Violence doesn't do anybody any good. I think this is just a militant radical movement thats moved over to Wounded Knee. I don't think they're representing the 99 and 9 / IOths per cent of all Indians in this country. I think they're just a few radical hotheads. 
Indian Voice: Have you talked to Congressman James Abnor of South Dakota? 
Gubser: Yes. I talked with him just last Thursday in the Cloakroom and I made the point that I thought the marshals ought to leave and let the local people settle it. He didn't in­dicate any disagreement with what I had to say. I got the feeling that he agreed although I shouldn't quote him to that effect. 
Incidently, one of my very best friends in Congress, he's now retired, was an American Indian, Ben Rifle. He was, I 
(Over) 


believe, a Phi Beta Kappa and something seems to tell me he could have been a Rhodes Scholar though I'm not sure of that. Brilliant fellow, real nice guy. I laughed at him one time, we were kind of joking, he said "The trouble with this Congress is there are too many chiefs and only one Indian!" 
Indian Voice; What have you found to be the general reac­tion of other members of the House to AIM's activities? 
Gubser: Well, I think they feel like I do. They're pretty much disgusted that a radical movement, not out for the good of Indian people or anyone else, can get so much publicity and get away ,with what they have gotten away with. And yet, on the other hand, none of us want to see any bloodshed. Ifthere were any bloodshed, if you moved in and wiped them out of there, then they'd become martyrs and I think thats actually what they're after. But I do feel that if local people on the reservation handled it themselves there wouldn't be that stigma against the United States government. 
I really think the A-I-M people would not provoke or sub­mit to bloodshed or any warfare with local reservation people because what they want is a confrontation with the United States government. They don't want a confrontation with their fellow Indians. The federal government ought to withdraw so they could not have a confrontation. When they didn't have that, the one thing which gets them their publicity-and thats all they're after-would be gone and I think they'd quit. 
Indian Voice: Do you support the President's proposed 
Indian legislation? 
Gubser: I'll be frank with you. I have not had an op­
portunity to study it in detail. From all that I've heard about 
it I think I could support it but I've not studied it in detail. I 
really can't speak with a great deal of knowledge about the 
specifics of it. 
Indian Voice: How would you evaluate the performance of Congress in Indian affairs? 
Gubser: Again, I'm probably not too qualified to judge but I feel Congres has been very cognizant of the Indian's needs. I think the subcommittee on Indian Affairs of the House Interior Committee is very knowledgeable. I think they've honestly tried to do a good job. I think that Congress has done the best that it could. 
Indian Voice: How do you stand on the California-Nevada Interstate Water Compact? 
Gubser: You're speaking of Pyramid Lake? 
Indian Voice: Right. 
Gubser: Well, to me its a matter of real trust. The water level at Pyramid Lake was vested in the tribes of that area. I think the fish life of Pyramid Lake is an important part of the economy. I think we have an obligation to maintain the water level at a level which will allow the propagation offish life and allow the tribes, the people of the area to utilize the lake in the manner that they have always utilized it. I think it would be an absolute crime to go back on our word with respect to letting the water level go down. 
Indian Voice: How do you react to recent charges that the 
Office of Economic Opportunity has sponsored some of the 
more spectacular activities of AIM? 
Gubser: I'm not surprised at all. I felt when OEO was first organized it was faultily based. It was formulated in a manner which I was immediately able to recognize would result in driving the people in the so-called "establishment" out of the poverty program leaving only those who were trying to get something for themselves. And thats what happened. I know hundreds of established people who honestly wanted to become involved in helping to fight poverty. But when we stipulated that certa· 
the leadership, in fact, the dominant pin per, 
leadership, had to come from the poor erce~ta doomed the program to failure. Now lets 'rawe. is a fina~cial success I think he's b;tter q::.~ Ifa 
so~eone i~ poverty the way to shake off povert led 
beheve, with all due respect to people wh y.
O
stricken, that those who have not been able t ~~ 
shackles of poverty have the ability as a grou;~~~ how to ge~ out ofpoverty. y OU needed both. y OU .:in 
the poor mvolved and you had to have the 
tablishment". s 
The very first thing the poverty program d"1d manufacture the word "establishment" as thee the poor people against the people who had bee:~lllJ. successful. The thing we needed to fight poverty w them toge!her and ~ot drive them apart as th~to program did. And so 1t ~a_s bound to fail, finally res a struggle for power w_ithm the hierarchy of the 
Indian Voice: Do you think there has been any benefit from four or five years of OEO? 
Gubser: There were certain parts of the poverty that started out like Headstart and Upward Bou:d ~ave since been transferred out of OEO. They are now m the Department of Labor and the Department ofH Education and Welfare. I think these programs successful because they were soundly based. I think to extent we have taught poor people how to become in in the system and-to that extent its been a plus. But bJ large I think O EO has been an 80 to 90 per cent failqa 
The poverty programs created the idea that all you do was hand out a bundle of money and all of a people would find a way to becoming prosperous. money was necessary but they needed the help ofpeople already were prosperous. I'm not going to shed any over the death ofO EO. There are certain programs rd see continued but they can be continued under R Sharing at the local level. 
Indian Voice: What is your position on the present troversy between President Nixon and Congress over thr sue of "executive privilege"? 
Gubser: I personally feel that the President s "executive privilege" too far on the Watergate because the Watergate affair was not an official act of Presidency. That was a political act by the Committee to elect the President, a political cmmmittee which quite cidently happened to represent the President. So since it a political acitivity I just don't think it deserves the immllllllf of "executive privilege". I feel that the President made a take. I hasten to add that I think this was pro something he was advised to do by some of his closest visors. 
Indian Voice: What do you think of "executive pri~ as it applies to the impoundment of Congressionally propriated funds? 
Gubser: I think the ~resident has a perfect righ! to d~ Let me say that Congress has a remedy. Ifthey wish tO DJUII' it mandatory for the President to spend money then theJ offer a Constitutional amendment, pass it in each h?use two-thirds majority and send it out to the state legis~_ .. Then the President would be Constitutionally boUDU spend what Congress voted. Congress has anothe~ WI exerting some leverage against the President to get bun what they want. If the President has the right not to money which the Congress has appropriated its obviout 
(seep 


IND/AN VOICE 27 

The Lakota way of life before their confinement on reservations by the Americans. 
I (IV May 1973) told the story ofhow White Buf­

fa~oman, (Wohpe) came -~o the peop_le to deliver the falo d Pipe, which was the jzrst .great gift from Wakan­Sac{:. The pipe provided the bonding link betw_een the 
1

tan Lakota Kin (The Lakota Peop,e) and Him. She
0yate d
romised that He would send them Seven Sacre

Is
a op . . h h . if d . d
Rites through vzswns w en t e tzme o nee arrive ... 
MI HUNKAPI, when White Buffalo Woman left, the difficulties which had beset the peop~e seemed to. f~de away with her.-She had not only given them v1S1ble 
·dence of Wakantanka's concern for them, but had also c:;ovided every individual of the tribe with a sacred ~nd :irect way of communicating with Him through smokmg the Pipe. Perhaps, most importantly, her visit gav~ t~em a sense of form in the univ:rse. A se~se of th~ir mter­relationship and oneness with everythmg that is. In the everyday sense, the form was fluid and ever cha_nging, but in the overall sense it was a changeless one. White Buffalo Woman came to a people who lived in a frightening world of unpredictable and unfathomable circumstances._ She left them with the security of a personal, and group iden­tity in a world which was intricately combined and whole. Finally, she gave them the assuran~e tha_t whe~ circumstances altered, they would be provided with addi­tional knowledge of how -to cope with them. 
Everything of Oani Lakota Kin (The Lakota Journey) stems from the Gift-of the Pipe. The religion, as well as its growth and development ( through the visions of Wicasa Wakan -Holy Men) was delineated there. Th€ way of everyday life and the fulfillment of the tribe's.practical needs developed accordingly in conjunction with the relationship to Wakantanka. In Part One, we said that there is an intricate relationship between a Lakota's religion and all aspects of his life -that indeed, there is no difference. This is how that came to be -because it remained, after the coming of White Buffalo Woman and the Pipe. Both began with the same event, and developed as integral parts of the same reality. 
The economic base of the Lakota Nation was the buf­falo, who were sent to us by Wakantanka from the U~derground region in the west where Wi, the Sun rests at night with his companion, Tatanka, chief of The Buffalo People. Everything comes from the buffalo: clothing, tipi covers and furnishings,. fuel, implements,-(needles, awls, scrapers, for example, from the bone, spoons from the horn, thongs and bedding from the hide, thread from the gut, etc.) Every single part of the slain buffalo was used, :nd after a butchering, only some partly digested grass 
rorn the buffalo stomach would remain lying on the


Prairie. 
The Sicun, orpersonal power of Tatanka, resides prin­cipally in the skull, but also in any part of the -buffalo. Therefore, in all things he wore or-use~, the La~ota ~as involved in a religious as well as a practical relat10nship. 
But while uses of buffalo hide were many~there are four general forms into which it was prepared: rawhide with hair, dehaired rawhide, tanned -with hair and -~anned without hair. The first two were prepared by stakmg out the hide hair-side down, and scraping off all meat from the inner side. The dehaired type was then made by turning the hide over and scraping off all the hair. The hide was then soaked and while wet, shaped into the desired form of its use (such as boxes for storing food, soles for moccasins, mats, pipe bags, drum heads, shie~ds etc.) Painting and design were also d~ne before _the _hide dried as well as the beating process which makes it pl,iable and white. 
Hides were tanned by soaking them ( dehaired type) in a mixture-of buffalo brains and liver, or in the case of the haired kind, by rubbing this mixture into the flesh side ?f the hide after all traces of tissue were removed. Tanned m this manner, the skins were white, pliable, soft and durable. 
A man wore moccasins made of tanned hide with a hard rawhide sole, usually taken from the shoulder of a buffalo killed in fall or winter when hides are thick. The shape of the moccasin comes from the leaf ?f th~ S~cred Cottonwood tree. He wore leggings of rawhide tied m the · back. His breech cloth was made from soft tanned hide lapped over a thong belt, fr~nt ~nd back, l~ke an apr~n. His shirt was made of two skms tied at the sides, and with sleeves tied at the back. He wore his hair in two braids which, on dress occasions, were covered by the ski1_1 of an otter. (In later times these were often wrapped with red trade cloth and the cloth was plaited into them.) For warmth he ~ore robes, often bushy with hair, made from a single skin. However, in a hunting or war party, men usually dressed only in moccasins and breech cloth, and carried a light robe for sleeping. 
Women wore moccasins similar to men, as well as leggings. Their other garment was a long dress nea~ly touching the ground, usually made from two large skms sewn together at the sides. . . 
The basic unit of the People was the family. A typical family consisted ofa man, his woman or women (men had as many wives as they could support but seldom more than three), their children, and any older aunts, uncles, brothers or sisters who had no other support. Ifthere were several wives in the family there might be two or even 
(Over) 

Drawing "A" 


WI (Sun)  SKAN (Sky)  MAKA (Earth)  INYAN (Rock)  
HANWI (Moon)  TATE (Wind)  WOHPE (Beautiful One)  WAKINYAN (Thunderer)  
TATANKA (Buffalo)  MAHTO (Bear)  TATETOB (4 Winds)  YUMNI (Whirlwind)  
NAGI (Soul)  NIYA (Conscience)  NAG ILA (Soul-Spirit)  SICUN (Charisma)  

Even the major aspects of Wakantanka himself are centered around the sacred number f our. 
There are four superior, or highest aspects of Wakantanka: Wi, Skan, Maka, and lnyan. lnyan is the oldest, then Maka, then Skan and then Wi. But in the order f irst given above, they can be seen as Chief (Wi), Spirit (Skan), Creator (Maka), and Director (lnyan). There is a secondary group of four which are the counterparts of the first group: Hanwi, Tate, Wohpe and Wakinyan. The third group is: Tatanka, Mahto, Tatetob and Yumni. The final group is Nagi, Niya, Nagila and Sicun. Thus Wakantanka has four times four or sixteen primary aspects. 
Each of these sixteen aspects represent the activities of Wakantanka as directed to distinci or specialized purposes. But we must never f mrget that they are only various aspects of Him. As the animating powers of the visible and invisable world, they.form a single being orfmrce: Wakantanka . 
./ 
three tipis to house them. Multiple tipis served to avoid bickering (unless, as was often the case, the second and third wife were sisters of the first) but it was still con­sidered as "one lodge" if all were under the care of one husband. 
The duties of a man to Wakantanka, to his family, his people and himself were all symbolized by the four Cardinal Virtues: bravery, generosity, fortitude and integrity. He was expected to defend his lodge against enemies, be giving and generous to his family, his guests, his relatives (which in extension included the entire tribe) and particularly to any who were old, sick or otherwise helpless. He was expected to endure in the virtues against whatever ordeals life set for him, maintaining the purity and integrity of his relationship to both Wakantanka, his people, and himself. 
The principal everyday duty ofthe man was to provide, with the help of his sufficiently aged sons, food and provisions for his lodge. This must be done without en­dangering the food supply ofthe rest ofthe band. (Such as scaring off a large herd before all could join in-the hunt.} At the-same time it was through him and his prayer with his pipe that family relation to Wakantanka was chiefly maintained. 
Duties of women were symbolized by four Cardinal virtues: hospitality, industry, fecundity and fidelity. It was -only through strength in these virtues that she could properly fulfill her destiny to her family, her people, herself and to Wakantanka. She was to be receiving and hospitable to all who entered her home, to be busy most of the time at one or another of her tasks, to provide her people with their future through generous offspring, and to be true and faithful to the trust put in her by her bqs:. band and her people, and to do nothing to demean either. 

A woman was the living representative of Maka,-the Earth, mother to all the Oyate Lakota Kin (The Lakota People). Hers was the care of the tipi, the manufacture and raising of it as well as its maintenance-as a home. The manufacture of all clothing, utensils, implements (other than those used for hunting or war and certain specialized items such as pipes and sacred objects) and furnishings were the woman's special province, in addition to preparation of food and care of the children. 
While in everyday life women amused themselves with their children, and spent many afternoon hours playing a kind of dice game with friends, they were still expected to place strong emphasis on the second Cardinal virtue: in­dustry. "The hands should always be busy" was one of their maxims. Thus, in the evening after dinner, while the man smoked and exchanged information with guests from far places, the woman's hands would be bUS)' quilling decorations on some garment or article for future use. Even if all the immediate needs of clothing and materials were satisfied in the lodge. 
Although Lakota society is marked by an almost total interdependence of all its members, in the deepest se~ the women were its backbone. "The safety and well being of the people lie in the moccasin tracks of the women. When they stray from the straight path the buffalo do-not 
come." This is one of the-oldests and most basic Lakota maxims. This is the importance of the fourth virt~ fidelity. When women ofa tribe became corrupteci oftheU' 


not only does life disintegrate in the every day 
~ues,s is obvious, but also, buffalo do not come to the sense as and -the people starve. For this religious reason, ~~:rof Lakota women is guarded above almost all other 
things. . . .
F Bure in a man is serious, but not so crucial because e ~onsequences are not so devastating. Hot blooded th g braves may rush a buffalo herd too soon and 
oun 1 Th' . .
Y tter it so that many are ost. is is very bad, but if the !:rnen's moccasin tracks are straight there will be other 
ds If they are not, then no matter how excellently the ::~te.rs search, the buffalo will not -come. If a man, through temporary weakness, speaks with a forked 
ngue to the elders, or even flinches and runs in the face t~danger, it is terrible, but life goes on anyway. His family : shamed but they recover. But if women fail, then 

verything collapses. e for this reason, women are carefully schooled in their responsibilities during girlhood. For example, she must never demean her husband publicly. On the face ofthings, she is presumed to be virtuous and right, and who knows her husband better than she? Thus, how~ver renowned he might be for his deeds in war, the hunt, council or prayer, ifhe is not respected by his wife he will lose his following. (Even the ~reat_ Red Clou~ h~d trouble with this.) Worse 
IND/AN VOICE 29 

demeans her husband. Firstly that he does not hold her respect, and secondly that he has chosen a very bad woman. As a consequence he loses prestige and the people suffer. 
This is not to say, however, that a woman must stay with a man whom she doesn't want. If, for exam­ple, she has gone with a man to please her family while ac­tually prefering another man, she need ·only-stay with the first husband a couple of years for the sake of respect. Then, after publicly removing his effects from the tipi (which comes from the woman's family and is, in effect, hers) and placing them outside, she may join with the second man. "Divorce" is thus a simple enough matter for a woman. In doing this while her man is away from the lodge, she honorably establishes that she is free ofher hus­band, and her moccasin tracks are straight. When the hus­band returns and discovers he has lost -a wife, he i·s expected to accept it without complaint or public djsplay. His -hurt -feelings may be assuaged by geing on the warpath, perhaps, against the Crows but his prestige is in­tact. 
For the man, "divorce" is more complicated. He must wait for some public dance or pow-wow, carve a Claiming Stick, then throw it to some warrior and hunter whom he has reason to believe might be pleased at being offered his 

t ® eP 

I
© 
A-altar F-fire P -anchor peg W-wood D-dooir C-Catku G -guest (oldest son etc.) 8-bed R -Willow back rests S -shield, pipe, personal 
effects of man hung here 
Black dots are poles-. dotted line inside poles is the liner. 
Extra beds indicated by dots a,nd "B". 
Arrows indicate sun-wise direction for entering. 


Wakantanka made everyth,ing round, so roundness is sacred. The
EAST

Drawing "C" sacred symbol is the circle. The tipi is round, the Rim of the World is round, the camp circle, the limb ofa tree when cut and many others. 
wife. Or, he can go to friends, smoke the pipe with them, and offer the stick. The reason for all this is that in ridding himself of a wife a man must still insure that she is provided for. Ifshe has a large and powerful family with many brotners, he can also arrange for her to return to them, but whatever, he must be sure she is secure. 
The Lakota faimlyis different from those of some other peoples. The term Ate, father, refers not only to the biological parent, but also to brothers of the father. Ina, mother, refers also to sisters ofthe mother, whether or not they are also the wives of _the father. If the personal relation was close, spouses of all fathers and mothers could also be addressed by that term. 
Children of any of one's fathers or mothers are one's sisters or brothers. One's older sister is Tanke, younger, Tonksi. The older brother is called Cinye, the younger brother, Sonka. A second cousin would be called "cousin" (the Lakota word varies depending on the sex of each party) assuming the ages are similar. Ifthe cousin is older he might be called Leksi (uncle)or l'unwin (aunt). These latter ,terms can also be applied to other relatives or family friends who are very close and respected but are not close enough to be Ate or Ina. Parents ofany father or mother, or any respected tribal figure of ones grandparents generation, should be addressed as Tun­kasila (grandfather) or Unci (grandmother). 
It is important to understand that all these relatives h~ve, for the Lakota, the intimacy of relationship in­dicated by the terms. Thus the entire family structure is moved an entire generation closer than exists among E_uropeans. The effect in terms ofsecurity and support for the individual is obvious: one is never alone never without close relatives. Of course, one is als~ never ~ithout responsibilities, but this intimate relationship of interdependent relatives which comprises the family is the center rock of Lakota society. 
When one marries this situation of many relatives in­creases to include the spouses family. While a man, by custom, may not ever speak directly to his mother-in-law he is responsible for her as a son (particularly in the cas~ where she has no sons of her own), and is considered and received as a relative by all his wife's relatives. Ifhe has more than one wife from more than one family·the same follows. 
The home of the Lakota family was the tipi. These varied in size according to the number of people living in them. Some were twelve to twenty feet in diameter the smaller kind needing ten poles, the larger fifteen plu;two more for the smoke flaps. The poles were joined slightly forward from the center; having been placed in the ground in a circle. Then they were covered with buffalo hides, which were previously sewn together. There was a small hole in this cover at the top where the poles crossed and it extended down the front slope. This opening could be adjusted, depending on the wind, by two smoke flaps sewn to the cover. 
Inside the tipi, a skin lining is hung reaching from the ground to a height offive feet. Itextends around the circle next to the cover. On this lining, a warrior paints the tales of his exploits. -It also provides a practical weather in­sulation and a perfect draft control for the fire.
!~e arrangement _of everything inside the tipi is both rehg1ous and practical, as are all things among the Lakota. A strong rope is tied to the poles where they cross and dropped to point "P" (see drawing B) at the center of the tipi where it is fastened to the ground by a wooden 
peg. (When possible, a Cottonwood peg· is sacred.) This rope secures and stabir Is uhsed.~ 
. d S . . 1zes t e tip·1

strong wm s. pmtually it represents w k holds all things together. a antanka Directly in front of the anchor peg is a cleared earth which is an altar Sage and ssmaU s
. · -weet .,___ burned here to purify the lodge, or a pipe o-..,..
• h b . , or a
Before eatmg,-t e man unes a piece of meat b 
thanks to Maka, the Earth. He may also thr • . 
f. h kW. h owit111to
ire tot an 1, t eSun. The altar represent M ka Earth considered as Grandmother. s a U Also at the center, but in front of the altar • 
(F) usually in a shallow hole dug in the ~ is the slightly off center so smoke will leave throu:hu~. where flaps are on the front slope of the tip" e represents the Paha Sapa (Black Hills) which!. 1:he center of the world. In the fire hes theSicun are at
O 
power of Wi, the Sun. ' r 
The circle of ground which is the entire floor of the represents M~ka Ina, the Earth as Mother. It is she produces all hfe, an? who holds the family in her arma ~other does her ~h1ldren. ~aka U nci, the Grandm 
1s the non-active manifestation of Maka _ grandm~t_her who represents and symbolizes life, f1 ~nd stab1hty, whereas the Mother is the active prod 
1t. 
The door ("D") always faces east, from whence the light ofWi in the morning. -Before the Sun rises also the Lakota Aurora (Anpeo) which is the first and represents the wisdom of Wakantanka. This immediately enters the lodge. · 
At the back of the lodge, facing the door, and ona o~ skins (which ~t night may also serve as a bed) • willow back rest 1s the Catku, or honor seat. This is p so Anpeo may be seen from it through the door. Thia i~ f?r the man ofthe lodge. ("C"). When thefamilyisia tlp1 alone, the oldest son may sit in the seat beside Catku at ("G"). But when a guest visits he sits there, more than one, the most important guest. However, very renowned man is the visitor, particularly one than the host, then the host moves to his right and the Catku to the guest. 
In an ordinary situation, either with the family al with normal guests, the host is the one to light thep· directly faces the east to receive the wisdom of tanka. However, if the guest is an older and man ( especially if he is a Wicasa Wakan -Holy­then he would be paid the honor of lighting the pipe saying prayers. The Catku is where the Wisd Wakantanka can most easily reach him. On the north and south sides of the tipi against the are two beds which, along with the bed beneath the comprise the sleeping arrangement of a small However if the family is larger, then additional placed as needed. (Indicated in Drawing B bydo marked "B"). On the circle ofthe Earth, (flooroftbl the door, the Catku, and two other beds rep Four Directions -al-so the Four Winds (Tateto 
The vault of the tipis' roof represents Skan, and the poles-reaching from Earth to Sky are the­Omani, or Spirit Trails which the Nagi (~oul) takel journey after death. The Wanagi Omaru can.be cloudless nights hanging-0ver the prairie. It 15 Americans call the "Milky Way". -TAIIC 
(Omani Lakota will be continued next issue) 
IND/AN VOICE 31 
Cheyenne Reflections (Oil) 


Our artist for this issue is Ida Carol Ryan or Oneoda. She is of Pembina, Chippewa, Little Shell band ancestry. A University of Arizona at Tempe graduate, Mrs. Ryan has been exposed to art training from instructors with widely variated area and racial backgrounds. At Miguel Allende, Mexico, Sam Sorenson presented her with the possibilities inherent in charcoal sketching. At Livermore, California, Jade Fong Woo revealed his secrets on water co
lori During Ida's stay at Gunnison, Colorado, her orw i professor, Gus Adamson, divulged his technique for blocking, silk screening, and pen and ink craftman hip. Chautauqua, New York, Paul Richardson disclo m­tricacies of oils and murals. In Apache country, Hon Arizona, Russian Paul Modlin inspired Mrs. Ryan sensitivity in acrylics, but it took Robert Rochelle of Leandro California to imbue character depth penetra in her po,rtraitures. Mrs. Tokano showed her the ym and reckoning of Japanese flower arranging and toda artist holds a certificate of approval from the I 

Ikebana system. 
· m Two of the oils presented here were d?ne at D: Creek on the Fort Apache Indian Reservation. The_ portrait of Winona, daughter of Mosiah and Syl~ama_ the North Fork Band Apaches. The child granddaughter of the great chief Alchesay. The 
IND/AN VOICE 33 




landscape with Apache ponies grazing in a meadow near the edge of a woods, was done with Clarence Goklishe's ponies being the models. Some of the finest horseflesh to be found anywhere in the world belong to the White Mountain Apache. These horses, are treated better than many human beings. 
Oneoda did her "Sachems of the Wild" landscape of Bighorn Sheep at 12,000 feet on a snowy ridge overlooking a pine forest near the Continental Divide. Her "Misty Rim" of the Grand Canyon was created after horseback riding to the top of the canyon from Havasupai at its bottom. Visiting strange and unusual places always stimulates her brush. 
Mrs. Ryan did the cover plus numerous pen and ink sket­ches for NATIVE AMERICAN PUBLISHING COM­P ANY'S first venture, THE SECRET OF NO-FACE. Inspi~ed by the late Chief Everett Parker, he acquainted her with much information on Iroquois history and cosmology. 
Today Oneoda has thoroughly aligned herself with the traditionalist Indian way. This summer she plans to put her talents to scenes depicted on reservations throughout the land. She views things through Indian eyes and preserves them on canvas so beauty and truth will continue to exist. 



They always met automatically, trusting fate to either grant or overlook rendezvous and neither broke this one rule. She would arrive in San Jose Monday afternoon on PSA's 4:50 commute flight from Los Angeles and taxi to the Casa Alvarez where Simon relaxed to piano tunes in the lounge. Both were in a position to adjust their sales trips to coincide and except for rude California weather, dined at Paolo's, Plateau 7, and 17 West. 
Before meeting Joyce, Simon drove a co.mpany car down the peninsula from San Francisco and returned each evening. Increased orders, freeway traffic and his wife's growing contempt gave him the excuse to take advantage of his company's lucrative expense account. He always drove Joyce to the airport when their time expired -they always sat in quiet gloom during that short trip like paratroopers awaiting eviction. He'd tell her then ... unless a better op­portunity presented itself. 
Talk of family, friends or occupation remained taboo and now having shared many experiences together they could af­ford elimination of these personal topics. But certain knowledge previously escaped privacy during moments of passionate intoxication. Joyce learned he was a Mohawk, married and had a teen-aged son. Simon knew her to be twice divorced. These revelations were never expanded upon, never discussed. Their world was them, selfish or not, and they revelled in ifas if obsessed. 
"Hi," she whispered, placing purse and gloves atop the bar. 
He quickly ordered two Martinis and with an appreciative glance pulled out the stool while admiring her short skirt. "You look absolutely beautiful," he said. 
"You look absolutely divine." 
This completed their salutation ritual and they finished their drinks in meditation. But this time Simon sensed something wrong in the tone of her voice. It didn't have the usual girlish ring to it, perhaps she had a cold. "Do you feel alright?" he asked and she answered, "Yes, but I've had a harrowing day." Satisfied, he carried her luggage across the concourse to room 437, a familiar room where she would change clothes before dinner. 
Simon enjoyed watching her preparation; was amazed at the amount of femininity that went into creating her illusion. Not that he hadn't seen Joyce get dressed before, but on this occasion she projected an aura of enchantment. A very handsome woman, she remained among the fortunate few whose bouquet beautifies with maturity. 
A short story. He loved her than anything, well almost a:;;h 

He admired her flat, kitten-like face with fath , took on full dimension only when she smiled. He:~on flanked by oversized blonde curls, resembled springs. Smooth as a marble statue, her complex· with perfection ~ighlighted by the sultry, cosmetic~r: large green_ eyehds. In summ_er, her lithe body rna turned Indian bronze though for some escaped 
swimming never made their agenda. 
He changed his shirt and necktie, appraised him If. mirror ~nd combed his black hair into place. He an shout his message to her, but preferred their visit to casual. Timing could be an important factor; he'd ai more intimate moment. Slipping back into his tweed jacket he carefully noted furniture changes in the r m shared. 
Solids, stripes and danish modern replaced flo plaid but it remained their room, their home. A I where they first caressed had vanished and an ab tra hung suggestively on walnut panelling but this room never change. It had become a fixture in their live . credibility of their being there, now together like all Capistrano struck him and he stretched to kis her fi when she paused to apply her lipstick. 
"Do you mind if we pass Paolo's tonight and got 7?" Joyce asked, tucking a rebel curl in place. 
"Of course not, my dear. I'm sure Julio won't trouble seating us on Monday. We should be prefi tomers by now." 
During dinner Simon awaited his opportunit detective's finesse. They had been drawn to naturally as the sea to land, there had bee~ no irritation about any of it. Convention turm01l, fo to share a large booth in the hotel coffee shop waiting-waiting-waiting to be served they agreed. elsewhere, her choice being Plateau 7. T~e my t n quency of number seven appearing in her life am two of the restaurants and the room were ?f her blf 
In the ensuing months they enjoyed tenm~ and 
summer movies and bowling during the ramy
' · And
recreation lathered in the luxury of pass10n. e-da 
pattern that emerged during their monthly, threth 
Both left the nest between 8 and 10 A.M.! bo 
001
between 4:30 and 5 P.M. fulfilling their ..,hll!IIP,., obligation. Simon knew they risked discovery et 
(; 
/ 




Eleventh Evening. 
by Charles and Elaine Eastman 
"You are late to-night, grandchildren," grumbles the good old wife of Smoky Day, as she stands in front_ofherlow doorway, peering under the folds of her dark blanket at the little toiling figures slowly coming nearer, and the many twinkling lights across the snow. 
"My mother gave a (east to-day," murmurs Tanagela, in her soft voice. "There were so many people for us to serve -I could not come any sooner! But see, grandmother! I have brought you some boiled rice and venison," she ends, proudly bringing out the heavy kettle from under her skin robe as they enter the well-smoked lodge. 
"Ah, ah!" exclaims the story-teller, whose old eyes brightened at the sight of the good food. "We are to feast to-night, it seems; therefore I shall tell you of a feast and what came after." 
The Festival of The Little People the air. That wise medicine-man, the 
Serpent, will also be there!" 
The big voice ofthe Bumble-Bee was So Unktomee's herald made the heard in every nook and corner of the cedar-fringed gulches and pine-scented wood, a·nd from end to end of the deep hilltops fairly hum with his call. valley, for U nktomee, the generous, It was in July, the Moon of Black was giving a feast, and the Bee-was his Cherries, and the Little People herald, the crier of the day. gathered in great numbers at the place 
"Ho, every creeper, every buzzer, all of the Singing Waterfall, which had 
ye little people who fly without been chosen for the meeting-place. The feathers, come this day to the festival!" happy valley buzzed with their million boomed the Bee. "All must prepare to voices. exhibit their best skill; the Toad, who Then Unktomee, the prudent, saw can neither fly nor run, his brother the fit to appoint certain warriors to keep Bullfrog, with his band of musicians, order at the festival. For many were and even the Flyingsquirrel with the present, therefore mishap or injustice 
rest. Tanagela, the Humming-bird, might be. will be the judge of beauty, and the Bat The wolf was ordered to watch upon will judge your skillful performance in the surrounding hills, so that no enemy sh?uld come near; and theOwl pomted to keep order within the and especially to see that neither Bat, the Night-hawk nor the s tribe were permitted to disturb tie insect people. The day opened well, with a 
cho of praise from the great orchestra sunrise song opened by Ta-she­the Meadow-lark, in which even crickets joined, with their instruments. 
Then came the contest of bea which the Butterflies, in their dresses of every color, won the prize. The Bat, however, who judge of feats on the wing, had made a meal of some of the contestents. · The Owl swooped d upon him to punish him, and there great confusion. 
U nktomee could do nothing 
guests. The Toad began to de our smaller creepers, the Snake a the Toad and even the Wolf' down from his station on the make a raid upon the helpl People. Thus began the war!'are preying among these feeble tn has lasted to this day. 
It is not wise to put the st" authority over the weak. 
)tit[ 


IND/AN VOICE 37 
A humorous recollection of the BIA takeover in Washington. 

night Secretary of Interior one Morton dreamed Indians were ogrog into his home. One after th~r they crawled through his aJIO om window and bounded onto thert They crept u~ to _his bed, then looking at him hke he was a um piece. Suddenly, he jumped up 
·h his arms swinging frantically and lied, "Look ou~! Look out_!" Looking at his dazed wife on the 
r. he remembered what caused the 
htmare: Indians had taken over BIA. ·nee then, nothing's been right over re; toilets don't flush; paper doesn't roll. and employees have been acting. 
.just about the same way.) 
ubsequently Morton grabbed the · · of the BIA away from Commis­r Bruce and put two guys over -Crow and Loesch. Then he around and gave this same ority to Richard S. Bodman, as­t secretary .. to the Interior for 
nglement and fudget." He let the real reason for his move get . from himself. So I hooked into the 
jo-Whitehouse hotline to find out truth. Here's what I overheard: Mi Nimbles, get Mr. Morton on phone right away!" He' on Mr. President." Morton, this is the president, have 
0,' the ~IA cleaned up yet?" ere domg that now sir"
D. , . 
omg what? It's been weeks since 'takeover'! People are making me 
OU k"
as mg about what happened
th
ere. Companies who have 
-off Indians are concerned about exposed." ell ir th I · 
rno .-e emp oyees are sweeping PPmg up the place, then hauling 
. trash B t d . .
Cd b · u nvers are being · f Y Workers sifting through the 
or 
personal correspondence in at Work. They want their letters Proper files " t that k. . 
n! 1 md .of cleaning up, ir rnean getting rid of Bruce!" last You gave a 'self-termination' summer. Didn't you say you 

wanted Bruce to be part of this new policy?" 
"Yes, but I didn't think he was going to threaten the status quo of BIA with a new team, or that he would back a protest like the recent Indian Occupation, which confused the country for those records Indians hauled away. What if Jack Anderson gets ahold of them?" 
"He'll probably title his book 'The Indian Papers,' " Morton answers. 
"And Morton, it was a critical time for another 'Alcatraz,' just before my getting elected. But I knew I could have the protestors thrown out of the BIA building soon after the polls closed. I didn't need the Indian vote, then." 
"Mr. President, I have talked to 
Bruce. I tried to get him to leave, to 
resign quietly. But he just went on and 
on about how the Whiteman has tried to 
run BIA for years but only failed. It'll 
be hard to get rid of him now; he's 
crammed his office with bedding, 
clothes, and cooking utensils." 
"Look Morton, tell him I'll stash him . away in one of the other departments: 
either Reclamation or Conservation. 
But I want this thing settled." 
"Excuse me, Mr. President, a 
telegram from Indian country has been 
sent to you through our office." 
"What does it say?" 
(see page 48) 


WOUNDED KNEE NEGOTIATIONS ... 
(Continued from page 7) 

Government was willing to drop its previous proposals and ultimatums, and proceed with a different attitude in negotiations, with greater willingness to face up to and dealing with the issues precipitating and represented by the Wounded Knee occupation. I made available the papers we had worked on and indicated that they could probably be accepted by the government as a working proposal that could be transformed into an agreement -unless Wounded Knee felt that their basic content and development had become to remote from the Indian people there and too independent of their involvement in construction. In that case, I informed them that the government would still be willing to drop all its previous positions, and negotiations could start from scratch in the scheduled negotiations the next day. The latter course, seemed everyone's preference. I did advise them that there should be no discussion or public mention (the news media had been barred from the village after the Monday night firefight) of White House in­volvement, but that I did retain direct telephone access to Leonard Garment and would be able to carry certain arguments to him, if first argued with the departmental negotiators and unreasonably rejected by them. 
Before returning to Rapid City, I talked to various members of the Oglala Sioux Council and the central AIM leadership regarding my views on the advisability ofan early settlement and what might be gained from it. 
On Saturday March 31, permission had been withdrawn for my entry upon the Pine Ridge Reservation. Federal authorities consequently arranged for Ramon Roubideaux and myself to make surreptitious entry into Wounded Knee by means of chartered helicopter. We flew to Roadblock No. 1, manned by FBI agents, having begun our flight five miles out on a deserted, almost impassable dried-mud road in Nebraska. On our arrival at the roadblock, we were immediately confronted by an outraged Kent Frizzell. Angered because the negotiations were to begin immediately at a teepee in the DMZ (DeMilitarized Zone) -and the teepee had not even then been put up -Frizzell declared that Ramon and I could go down into Wounded Knee and inform the people there that he would be ready to negotiate the following day, whenever they might be ready, and that we could stay in Wounded Knee until they were ready ­without alternative ofleaving! Frizzell momentarily restored his calm and restrained his temper, then advised us that they were going back to their offices, but would be available for negotiations as soon as the teepee could be put up and a half hour notice be given that the Wounded Knee Indians were ready to meet. 
A brief discussion with Dick Hellstern demonstrated the 
efficiency and frequency accuracy of federal informants in­
side Wounded Knee. He advised me that they understood 

that a pre-condition or unnegotiable demand was going to be 
offered at the outset of negotiations relating to federal action 
to secure court approval of free passage of food, medical 
services and attorneys, information, an agenda which had 

been generally agn~@d upon was set for the meeting. He ad­
vised me that, if the information was true, it would be an in­
surmountable obstacle to any movement by the government 
in accommodating the people of Wounded Knee in reaching 
agreements-on the larger permanent problems and issues in­
volved and potentially soluble. 

At our preliminary meeting in Wounded Knee, I dis­
covered that Hellstern's information had been precisely 
correct. A lawyer who had been staying in the village had drafted a statement of first demand insisf Government petitioJl the federal district court }ng it had previously denied to'!"ounded Knee. A PJ:. leader instructed us that this demand should be Cl order of business -and that no other matter s~orne cussed until the Government accepted it. If it wOuJd then we were instructed that negotiations :e terminated. I objected and argued against the po:: !he AI~ leader_ and the legal advisor. Noneth~ mstruct10n remamed-(In the subsequent negotia . sion, Carter Camp and Russell Means i disregarded the prep_ar~d ~tateme~t, the positio11instruction, thereby ehmmatmg the impasse that might have developed.) O 
Wll.lcaai... 
~egotiations Begin 
The March 31 negotiations_ got ~nderway appro41•ium... four hours late. A general d1scuss10n of issues, prob complaints and grievance_s ensued, with Oglala S persons dominating the session and matters raised. Inan quent statement of the simple concerns and purpotel Wounded Knee, Russell Me~ns_ severed a number of· from further need of negotiat10ns and dismissed previously-stated positions. Finally, the Government in Wounded Knee to prepare a list of all positions provisions that it wa~te~ the g~>Vernment to accept or 
upon. Another neg0 tiatmg sess10n was set for April 1 
I stayed overnight in Wounded Knee to draft the A proposals. I was given instructions by members of the leadership and the Qglala Sioux Council to rely upon March 31 discussions for the content ofthe proposals-a to "write them so the government can accept them". P memory I wrote down many of the points raised that dlJ then took additional riotes from tape recordings ofthe lllljar speeches given in the teepee. That night, there was an elec­trical power failure in the village and other reservatiOI towns, which prevented my completion ofthe documentthat night. The next morrting, I took the liberty of delaying tbe negotiating session from IO a.m. to 1 :30 by radio messaaeto the federal command post. A copy of the proposal forwarded to the federal representatives in Pine Ridge the notation that most people in Wounded Knee had notJet had chance to review it. At 12:30 a "mass meeting"was beld in the Trading Post, where the two-page IO-point propc,111, plus half-page preface, was read to everyone and su~ tly accepted. In an interesting, per~aps promiltl& substitution of terms, where I had written the wonll, "agreeable settlement", or "settlement", Rus~ell _Mellll substituted the term "disarmament", in presenting it to the people and in t~pe recordings to be supplied to 
media outside of Wo~n~ed Kn~e. • In the April 1negooatmg sess10n, the gover_nm~ntfirst jected to a provision which appeared to mamtam_ an ° agenda for every meeting in presenting new issues 
· · t nee
damands. (The provision had been included at mslS e uailJ several attorneys, and with strong urging from Comm Kalt Relations Services (CRS) pe~sonnel) _W~undedSe1dal agreed to drop it and deal only with remammg items. other items were consolidated, dropped from further 
sideration or adopted as statements of mutual unde ding. A final six points were. left, ~ith t?e ~o:eand accepting four of theJ:11 -relatmg to mvestigation forcements ofexisting laws, plus an unformulated prtdlllll""" 
· f " d " urrenders to a 
for the "dispossession o arms an s . 
and advismg that approval of the other two -rela 
fal treaty commission, and to positive federal ac­
'd~n ~ted toward administrative and judicial application 
Indian Bill of Rights on the Pine Ridge 
-would have to await consultations with 
C ff' . 1
. o icia s. 
1~ving with Mike H~nt by helicopter that ?ay, I ad­
Knt Frizzell and Dick Hellstern that I believed that 

if,d d:d Knee was seriously and sincerely seeking a set­
but that the minimal requirements relating to 

~nl{ouse-level meetings on a treaty commission was the 
fihl!e.,., above all others which must be met. I also informed 
~ 1te11• . . . h 
..... of my mstruct10n to wnte t e proposal "so the· dle111 rnrnent can accept". After stopping in Pine Ridge to aove sseveral details, Ramon Roubideaux pickedMike and 11'lps in Nebraska for return to Rapid City. 
,e U BY the time I was able to contact the White House to urge 
• acceptance of the final points, I was advised that the = points remaining after that day's negotiations had been accepted. Regarding the White House level meetings, I was ilfonned that the G~v~r~ment had decided tha_t it might be 1,etterto name a specific time fra~e for scheduling meetings -the third week m May. The basic language ofan agreeable provision for the meetings ~as read to me fr~m Washington, 
D.C. Subsequent conversations by phone with Kent Frizzell and Dick Hellstern reconfirmed the decision, as well as providing me__the information that the "Indian Bill of Rights" provis10n had been accepted and revised with 1anguage indicating a stronger federal commitment than we 
111d previously proposed. Indicating that I would not be attending subsequent negotiating sessions for reasons relating to their movement toward a final conclusion, I 
pve permission for the federal representatives to state 
that I had reviewed the proposed Government language forthe provisions and found nothing objectionable in them, ifsuch a statement would be useful in the next sessions. 
From the press briefings held in Pine Ridge by Kent Frizzell and Ramon Roubideaux, news began appearing in the press and broadcast media that a settlement was near. Thep~ospects of a settlement were plainly disturbing and DpSettmg to several of the white attorneys related to W~unded Knee and working out of Rapid City, Mark Lane bcm~ the person most adverse to peaceful settlement along the Imes already proposed by Wounded Knee. On late April Iand early April 2, I spent about three hours arguing with about ten members of the "Wounded Knee Legal Offense­Dc~ense Committee" in support of an early settlement and against any efforts on their part of advising against the : opos~d settlement and an early end to the armed con­o~~hon. There was a noticeable shift in favor of my position, which at one point led Mark Lane to "threaten" to : er himself from the Committee ("collective"), untilt1YAxelrod chided him, "That's it; take your marbles
111 
~o home." He quickly reinstated himself. The next 111 poo~mg, the three lawyers who had been most hostile to my _ ~l~on and_ philosophies -and to the proposed settlement theet early mthe morning to go to Wounded Knee, arriving ..,_re 8°me four hours before the scheduled negotiations and 
, ,era h . · 
On th1 ours ~ef~)fe Ramon Roub1deaux could travel there. Clch e negotiat10ns that day, there were several heated """danges between Mark Lane and Kent Frizzell. Lane 
"'ICl ese · 
the G veral arguments against the proposed agreement and to ca~v~nment's motives. At one point, Frizzell was moved frorn ne "a damned liar" without apparent objection 
any quarter.) 
IND/AN VOICE 39 
Brando Offers Support 

In the same period, Marlon Brando called me from his Los Angeles home to propose an early meeting to discuss his sup­port for Indian causes. He stated that he did not want to travel to South Dakota, because his presence might attract too much attention and divert public attention away from Wounded Knee. He suggested meeting in Salt Lake City or Las Vegas, but I indicated that Denver would be more suitable in case I had to become involved again in negotiations. On the afternoon of April 2, Brando left a mes­sage setting up a meeting at a Denver Hotel on the evening of April 3. 
On the evening of April 2, I learned that there was to be another "counter-proposal" from Wounded Knee relating to the proposed treaty commission and meetings with the White House. The legal committee at that time became em­broiled in the drafting of provisions in the near-final agreement relating to procedures for the dispossession of arms and the procession of arrests. I briefly argued against any overly-complicated formulations or schemes which would become a bar to a final agreement, telling the lawyer's group that "one ofthe reasons Wounded Knee has happened is that Indian people want to get away from all this bullshit; once the people are ready to come out of Wounded Knee, they will want the processes to be as simple and quick as pos­sible . .." Ramon Roubideaux expressed optimism that a final agreement might be reached the next day, but did in­dicate some possibilities of problems and requested that I return with him to Wounded Knee the following day to help deal with any complications which might arise. He also noted some discernible hardening of Wounded Knee positions as probable result of some of the most recent non­Indian attorney advices to Indians in Wounded Knee. 
Ramon, myself and Sid Mills got a late start from Rapid City the following day. My plane schedule to Denver was for around 5 p.m., to meet with Brando upon arrival there. We planned to leave Wounded Knee by 2:30, but did not arrive there until shortly after I :30, again by helicopter directly into the village for continuing negotiations in a small church. We took in some cigarettes and about ten pounds ofcandy bars. At the start of the session, Wounded Knee presented its counter-proposal relating to the Treaty Commission, but calling for an immediate White House level meeting either at the White House or in Wounded Knee, preceding any dis­possession of arms or disarmament. The counter-proposal had been drafted by an attorney who had first proposed such an "immediate White House meeting as :: a first demonstration of good faith on the part of the federal government" in the course of the April I meeting. At the earlier time, Wounded Knee had been willing to accept the general commitment for a series of scheduled me'etings; however, the lawyer had lobbied for the "tangible first step" in the face of other lobbying for rejection of the general pac­kage which had been developed. 
The federal response to the counter-proposal was immediately unfavorable. We asked for a statement detailing what their objections were. Both sides asked for a brief recess to discuss the matter. I advised Wounded Knee that I believed the Government could accept some slightly­modified formulation of the same proposal, or that proposal with some explicit understandings relating to the dis­possession of arms and its timing. Additionally, I related the substance of certain conversations I'd had with Justice and 
(Over) 
White House officials-regarding possible endings to the con­frontation -including prospects of covert or 'informally­arranged' abandonment of Wounded Knee in the de~d of night, in event ofany continuing failure to reach a negotiated 
settlement. 
Kent Frizzell declared that he could not personally accept any implementation of a final agreement prior to a dis­possession of arms, or without the disarmament being a first item for implementation in an agreement -and that he did not believe that the White House could accept any meetings with Indians from Wounded Knee while the village remained an armed camp. We responded that an implementation of disarmament would beidn throueh preparations by the 
respective security and police forces immediately with the signing of an agreement. We argued that it would take a couple days' time to plan an evacuation and displacement in Wounded Knee, including an inventorying of weaponry or 
whatever. 
We argued that the procedure proposed was precisely the 
same as a previous proposal of the Government -with ac­
tual and final disarmament being scheduled to coincide or 
commence with the receipt of a telephone call by Wounded 
Knee immediately preceding the initiation of a proposed 
meeting outside and away from the village. We sought to 
meet every objection expressed by Frizzell, and specifically 
attempted to show how each objection was met or dispelled 
by the proposed procedure. After consultations with Dick 
Hellstern, Frizzell noted the effectiveness of"divide and con­
quer" tactics, pointing out that Hellstern was in 
disagreement with himself and favored seeking approval or 
acceptance of the basic counter-proposal. He expressed 
explicit doubt, however, that the White House would go 
along with anything like it. Attempting deliberately not to 
invoke any White House discussions openly, I pointed out 
that Alvin Josephy had just spent an afternoon at the White 
House, and that I had reason to believe that their attitudes 
had undergone substantial enlightenment or transforma­
tion in the preceding month and might well be more res­
ponsive to the proposal than Frizzell was suggesting. I urged 
that. since there was divided opinion among Frizzell and 
Hellstern on the proposition, in fairness to the proposal that 
both ofthem should discuss the matter with the White House 
in seeking the final decision. Misconstruing my use of the 
term, "beth sides", to characterize their divided opinion; 
Frizzell instead agreed that both he and I should call the 
White House to argue the merits of the proposal. I clarified 
the point. (That was to be the only open suggestion relating 
to our direct contact with the White House and Leonard 
Garment in working toward a settlement.) 
Needing to get back to Rapid City, I suggested the federal 
negotiators fly us back to Pine Ridge, consult the White 
House, and if a proposal might be approved, that they might 
return to Wounded Knee that afternoon for finalizing and 
signing an agreement. Instead, it was determined that there 
remained certain technical matters relating to other portions 
of the proposed agreement. Consequently, it was decided 
that U.S. Marshals would transport me beyond Pine Ridge 
and then the Community Relations Service (CRS) would 
attempt to get me to the airport in time to catch my flight to 
Denver. Sid Mills remained to accompany Ramon 

Roubideaux back to Rapid City (as well as to hold a brief 
meeting with Wounded Knee leadership, ostensibly in sup­
port of the proposed settlement). Traveling at excessive 
speeds to overcome a real late start, we approached the air­
port with some small possibility of catching my plane. Five 
minutes from the airport, however, the CRS vehicle ran out 
of gas. Brando called me later that evening f 
learn why I hadn't arrived. -We planned torom 
. b . . 1 llleet 
mornmg, ut surpnsmg y persons working all . motel unit took my wake-up call and failed to ~&ht catch the Denver flight. Brando had stayed 0 :a ~ Airport Holiday Inn under my own name. Wh:~11!1t there 24 hours late, he had already caught a flighdiet 
Los Angeles. Fro~ D~nver, however, I t. telephone contact with Frizzell and Hellstern R1118111.llllll!Qi and Garment regarding the final terms of an'A ou Wounded Knee. · ~ 
I urged Justice Department to accept the SyraCUle • pointing out that the Six Nations' chiefs couldexert))Oliliw influence and discipline for maintaining conformanc:etoa agreement and its appropriate and immediate implementa­tion. Without citing reason to Leonard Garment. I recom­mended the New York meeting site to him. He indicated that such a site would seem to be carrying the matter too far afield; and in our next conversation, he informed me tbat Washington, D. C., had been accepted as a site, but unclertbe neutral auspices or on the neutral grounds of the National Center for Dispute Settlement. 
On the afternoon of April 5, a 6-point Agreement draw from the April 1 proposal was finalized and siped at I sacred pipe ceremony in Wounded Knee. Russell Mea111... Leonard Crow Dog were transported by helicopter dlndlJ to Rapid City for a bond hearing, having submitted tollllll after the ceremony. The Justice Department also flew I federal magistrate from Sioux Falls to preside overthelNIIII hearing in place of the Rapid City magistrate (Wilson)• had been demonstrably unfavorable in previous beariDII­
U.S. District Judge Andrew Bogue, however, overruled arrangements made by Justice and directed that Ma..... Wilson should conduct any and all hearin~ relatinl Wounded Knee, unless presided over by Judge .. himself. A $25,000 full cash or collateral security ~:; required after several hours of delay for Russell Apl hearing. (If there occurred any federal violation of1.:.,115 Agreement, it was at that point in time, not subseq dlrld Washington, D.C.; and by judicial actions beyon~~-­control of Department of Justice and the White _. However, numerous external influences began to _, themselves on the thinking ofRussell Means once be 
wat11111of Wounded Knee and exposed to them. Notably, me&-­of the Wounded Knee Legal Offense/Defense Co began to inform persons calling for information on:'..,. form of the Agreement that "we have thr~~ language that can still be subject to additional pretation and dispute".) 


he rno~ning of April 6, I met with Russell Means, 
()ll t Roub1deaux, Leonard Crow Dog, and Tom Bad 
on the Denver Airport. I had planned to fly on to Los 

o,b at to rneet with Brando to secure his help in raising bail 
~ le~ut checking with his secretary I learned he was out 
iond5: with his jeep and probably would not be back 
c,inPlll~he weekend which was fully scheduled for him. 
" oref re I tried to catch Means' same plane to 
'(bere. 0 t~n, D.C., but missed it. I caught the next plane. 
f ashlll:St immediately after arriving in Washington, D.C., I 
Al~ of Russell Means' statements to news media in­

Jelfll~ a revised sequence for the telephone call to 
j:attllJed Knee to signal the beginning ofa "dispossession of 
f/oU~ _ conditioning such a call upon the completion of a 
~ sfactory" White House meeting, rather than at its begin­
1ck Hellstern had traveled to Washington, D.C., to rdinate the White House meeting with Leonard ~ ent, while Kent Frizzell had re~ained at Pine Ridge to rsee the disarmament and evacuat10n ofWounded Knee. : h Hellstern, Frizzell and Garment, in separate conversa­lioOS, expressed their deter_minations to stand by the April 5 Agreement and to meet its terms -but also not to be manipulated into a situation of new terms, wherein the Agreement might be repudiated by Russell Means after a White House meeting with him and the other Sioux repre·~ ~ tatives. Through both Hellstern and myself, Garment offered to meet privately and informally, without public notice, with Russell Means to discuss the substance and probably results of the scheduled meeting in order that it could proceed -and in order that Russell could com­fortably make the telephone call prior to its commencement as previously agreed to. Russell rejected the offers for a 
private, non-public preliminary meeting. 
Frizzell Confident of Disarmament 

There seemed a general eagerness on the part of the press and others to blame the government for breaching the agreement, irrespective of the truth ofthe matter. In fact, the government was willing to bend in most areas -except for refusing to hold the White House-level meeting and hazard­ingthe chance that Russell Means might never make the call to signal a disarmament at its conclusion. At Pine Ridge, telephone communications were again opened up for Wounded Knee for outgoing and incoming calls, and for Russell to coordinate with others there the plans for procedures of disarmament and evacuation. Both Kent Frizzell and Dick Hellstern were willing to accept the -iruthfulness" of statements made to them by the respective ; ounded Knee representatives, or to take the statements at 
ace value". Trying to maintain checks upon the pulse ofall areas of activity and to keep all lines of communicationsrn,I found myself knowing more than I want to know and gan to question my own usefulness in the given situation. "8At Wounded Knee, Kent Frizzell seemed confident that he SChs reaching a final agreement on procedures for the a eduled disarmament. He advised the news media thatJ:ut 90% of the final agreement had been nailed down, and 11o·t Progress was being made on the remainder. Privately, he ~ nted out that the people in Wounded Knee had declared lntthey would not permit anyone then outside ofWounded 'aee to prevent a settlement and final disarmament. Yet, I bei8 _aware that Mark Lane had been given assignment of a~ing to put together a disarmament "package that is Ol)eUt 90% complete", but which would leave "about 10% 
n to further discussion" -and controlled delay. 

ht,, 
IND/AN VOICE 41 

In Washington, D.C., U.S. Representative Lloyd Meeds called me at home to privately discuss the adviseability of, and my reccommendations regarding, retaining Russell Means on the witness list for hearings of the House Indian Affairs Subcommittee on the Trail of Broken Treaties and Wounded Knee, in view of the breakdown of the April 5 Agreement. I assured Congressman Meeds of my belief that Russell would not use the hearing as a forum for lodging new demands as condition for ending Wounded Knee confron­tations, and recommended that they proceed as scheduled. Also, I advised him that I thought ultimately it might require a public isolation of those persons opposing a settlement at Wounded Knee to bring it to a conclusion, and toward those ends it was important that governmental units maintain all their commitments -indicating to him my own judgement that the Administration to that point had done this. (Russell had begun by that time to advise other Indian people that I was not in agreement with what was happening in relation to the continuation of the Wounded Knee confrontation. After listening to a portion of my own congressional testimony, he became somewhat angry at me -but agreed with most points of rationale in discussion of matters of objection. On his final evening in Washington, D.C., however, he did make a strong verbal attack against me, although much stronger against others.) 
Toward the end of their stay here, both Russell and 
Ramon Roubideaux began blaming Dick Hellstern for the 
breakdown of the April 5 Agreement. In a surprising press 
conference statement, Russell declared that they would have 
no more conversations with Hellstern or other functionaries, 
but that I was being assigned to open direct talks with 
Leonard Garment at the White House to arrange a meeting 
as provided in the April 5 Agreement as interpreted by the 
Wounded Knee representatives. 
Since Russell was fully aware that I had had continuous direct contact with Garment relating to Wounded Knee, I was uncertain how best to react to Russell's statement. Finally I determined that, rather than take advantage of the arrangement which had been operative and instrumental in bringing both sides to the threshold of a meaningful set­tlement, I should terminate further direct communications with Leonard Garment. Consequently, I advised the White House that Russell's statement created a new situation which precluded continuation of our previous arrangement and lines of communication. Therefore, I agreed that future dis­cussions should be channeled through Garment's assistant, Brad Patterson, if there should be any. I indicated my feeling that my usefulness had greatly diminished, but advised that I would be available to both the Government and Wounded Knee, if either one or both sides might think I could be helpful in any way. (At time of my first meeting with Garment on March 23, I had insisted on direct lines of com­munication to him, rather than Mr. Patterson, noting some · difficulties in communicating with any efficiency past Brad. This had been accepted, perhaps with greater efficiency than Leonard Garment had actually wanted. The White House switchboard faultlessly traced Garment down for me on call, frequently at home and once at the Kennedy Center. At one point, Garment remarked (or complained), "That swit­chboard is getting so they're putting you through without even announcing you or saying who's calling.") 
The April 5 Agreement 

The failure to secure an end to the armed confrontation through the April 5 Agreement did not lead to its aban­donment by the government. Kent Frizzell declared the 
(see page 44) 



r.. 
3 
; 0 0 



WOUNDED KNEE NEGOTIATIONS ... 
(continued from page 41) 
federal intention to stick by the agreement "until hell freezes over". Frizzell returned to Washington, D.C. in the second week of April for his confirmation hearings on his appoint­ment to become Solicitor for the Department ofthe Interior. He was replaced in the field by Assistant Attorney General Stan Pottinger. Dick Hellstern returned to Pine Ridge when the White House-level meeting failed to occur. 
I did maintain periodic contact with the federal negotiators at Pine Ridge and with the. lawyer's offices and communication center for Wounded Knee in Rapid City. From Rapid City, I was requested to try to secure. a replacement for Dick Hellstern as the ranking federal repre­sentative in negotiations after Pottinger returned to Washington. "Anyone but Hellstern," was the demand. Kent Frizzell . moved into his new Interior office and in conversation asked me if I thought he could do any good by returning to Pine Ridge and Wounded Knee. I told him that I thought it didn't matter who was out there, unless Wounded Knee wanted to end the confrontation, but also advised him of the general Rapid City and Wounded Knee sentiment of "anyone but Hellstern". (From the time of the first teepee meetings, Kent Frizzell seemed to begin enjoying the negotiating processes and the less dangerous aspects of the entire situation. I had previously described his demeanor to other Indians and federal officials as that of a Nineteenth 
INTERVIEW: CHARLES S. GUBSER 
(continued from page 26) 
the Congress clearly has the right not to appropriate money that the President wants. And thats a pretty big club. In fact, there is no club greater than the power ofa purse-string. And Congress still has that power to withhold the appropriation of funds. They have never used that power. 
Indian Voice: Do you think then that some of the public statements made by some of the Congressmen attacking the President on this issue is mere rhetoric? 
Gubser: Its worse than rhetoric. I think its sheer demagoguery. If I have a child and I give that child too many charge accounts and I suddenly find that there is not enough money left in the bank to pay those bills, I, as the father, am obligated to go get some money to put in the bank to cover those bills. Now Congress is the child that has been going out and spending the money and charging all the merchandise with no thought or consideration whatsoever of providing the money to pay for it. Now they're telling the President "You spend this money but we're not going to tell you where its going to come from." 
The President has the obligation to keep this country from going much further into debt because that's one of the main causes of inflation. Its totally irresponsible for Congress to expect him to do otherwise. The President has the res­ponsibility to run this country on a sound fiscal basis. Unless Congress is going to step up to its responsibilities and pass the taxes to pay for the progr~ms they vote for, they have no right to expect the President to put this country into bank­ruptcy or worsening inflation by engaging in deficit fi­nancing. They ought to either provide the money or let him exercise his discretion as he is doing. 
I think the President is totally right on "executive privilege" in so far as impoundment of funds are concerned though I think he is totally wrong in using "executive privilege" in the Watergate affair. 
}1111-t 

Century cavalry officer involved in treaty negof 
the Indians as Robert Stack would play .the rol ~tio~ tieth Century movie script -while making oth! in a like we were all part of an unfilmed re-make of "r.::f111 feel River Massacre" in the peace-making stages.) e R.O&le 
Meanwhile, Brad Patterson continued to expr in the meeting with the traditional headmen and c::r........ Teton Sioux. He plainly remained committed to the Oftlae 
week of May schedule, provided that the confronta.a­W ounded Knee had reached a conclusion at that thn llaQII It Hellstern advised me that he had recommended that~l>ldt tire Pine Ridge Indian Reservation and the government "be taken into trusteeship" ( or receivel'shla,.....
) the Secretary of the Interior, and asked my opinion by results. I encouraged him in the recommendatto:8 • expressed belief that it would contribute to an earl 11d tlement. Brad Patterson confirmed that the idea had re!.: the White House level, but that such an action would ha,e rely upon the acceptance and approval ofthe Deparbnent to the Interior. He expressed serious doubts that the Int.: Secretary would take such an action, anticipating strona._ jections and reactions of fear among other trillal governments and officials throughout the country. 
Federal representatives had repeatedly disclaimed inten­tions of making a police assault against Wounded Knee since mid-March, barring situations in which the suffering of casualties or fatalities among the police forces mightcompe( an attempt to _end the confrontation by force. After breat. 
down of the April 5 Agreement, that general policy was maintained. However, one federal official expressed the view that decisive action would have to be taken before the general period related to the end of school terms -absent a settlement. There was a pervasive fear that college and high school students might flock to Wounded Knee after school was out and create · a more unmanageable and more explosive situation. Despite numerous rumors to the con­trary, I felt that the Government would not plan any police assault'on Wounded Knee prior to the passing of the third week in May. 
Dick Hellstern related to me some of the difficulties 
federal investigators were experiencing in following up on 
criminal complaints of violence to persons and of civil rights 
violations. The victims of several incidents, such as rape, 
which had been cited during the negotiating sessions, were 
denying that the incidents occurred or were refusin~ to dis­
cuss the matters with investigators. Nonetheless, 1D most 
areas of commitment under the April 5 Agreement, the 
Government was attempting to conform to the requirements 
placed upon it. One official indicated that, were it to become 
necessary to end the confrontation by police assault, the 
Government wanted to have built a clear record of ~n­
formance with the Agreement, as well as haVIDI 
demonstrated its willingness to reach or carry out every 
reasonable accommodation with Wounded Knee. · 
Kent Frizzell returned to Pine Ridge after only be~ng in= Interior office one day. Although the New York 7!m_es die erroneously pictured him as the key person in negot1atiD:.­April 5 Agreement (Hellstern had been the person and instrumental in securing federal approval for the formzeD'• substance of the agreement -and in overriding Friz die personal objections or doubts) in one of its "Ma~ inres­News" features, Frizzell definitely was the person cb1e~ ponsible for securing the May 8 evacuation o! '!0 endlJ Knee. Frizzell had initially attempted to maintain friilsCJII, and correct" relations with tribal chairman Richard W.... but was not constrained from arguing with him, dema 

of certain governmental actions, or unleashing 
,cceptanc:against him. After Kent Frizzell was subjected to Iii' telll~:st (twice), and saved from being shot in the head at ,0,,11 . t-blank by an heroic nJaneuver on the part of U.S. _,,-p~nrshal Colburn ( on the other hand, perhaps foolish Cbief \oth been shot; fortu11ately neither were), his rela­ll'd th.ey with the tribal chairman became less crucial to the fi005h1P being made and less affecting upon his relation­~~ion~h other Indian groups, both those in Wounded ~ps w~d the traditional headmen and chiefs. While i,ee a appeared to become more determined to limit ffei:!~edO Knee's options to the simple choice of staying in fo ded Knee or meeting solely for the purpose of pres­fl_o~ the methods ofcoming out, Frizzell showed a greater ::;;ness to a!low them some latitude for negotiating the 
tbod of commg out. . . . 

_,The Legal Committee in Ra.pi~ Cit~ later informed me ~t the Government, prior to Fnzzell s latter retur~, had i,een suspicious of even proposed sacred ceremonies for effecting disarmament. Person~lly, I would feel ~hat there could be ceremonies that should be cause for f~ar, if not susf­. ·on on the part of the government -in context o 
p1c1 ' b 1· . . h
making war or peace. Anyone e ieving in t e powers at band knows he should be certaitl how that power s_hall stand how it should direct the people. After learning of the 
or . I d.d
1awyers' disappointment that so~e particu ar ceremony i not assume control over the situat10n, I began to suspect that the Government's suspicions were probably not wholly 
without justification.) 
Assault Rumors Begin 

The final groundwork for the May 8 evacuation of Wounded Knee began being set in place when Kent Frizzell allowed access to Wounded Knee of the respected headmen and chiefs, led by Frank Fools Crow. Ironically, Frizzell and the chiefs and principal leaders in Wounded Knee were earnestly approaching an agreement at the same time that rumors were being spread by· a busy telephone network around the country that the federal police forces, assisted by a number of designated military units, were prepared to make an assault against the village on May 4, 5 or 6. The rumors were given greater credence by the refusal of Dick Hellstern to make an outright denial that a federal assault was imminent. In his least-frank conversation with me, Hellstern would not convey ~ny denial to me either, but rather engaged in the language that he had used with the press: "We have always regarded a direct police action as a viable option which we had to consider and which we might Well have to use." He was, however, amused by the number and names of the different military and guard units which were . then allegedly being rno_bilized, . maneuverin_g, or 
headmg toward, ( on) the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation. "I a~ prepared to state categorically and unequivocally," he quipped, "that John Way11e is nowhere upon this Reservation and we have no intention of calling him in ...at this time." ' On the evening ofMay 2, I discussed the matter with Mary 
Bergren of Senator Abourezk's staff. She expressed concern over the rumors which had carried to the Senator's office as "ell. She noted that Tom Suslflan of Senator Kennedy's of­fice. had expre~sed comparable concern over an imminent Police assault. Significantly, site noted that the Senator had :laced a call to Kent Frizzell to discuss the current situation, ut that Frizzell had not returned the call by the time ~nator Abourezk left his office. Mary indicated that the enator would probably attempt to get through again to 
IND/AN VOICE 45 

Frizzell and promised to give me a reading after they had talked. I checked back with her several times into the late evening only to learn that the Senator had not yet talked with Frizzell. , 
Around 11:30 p.m., Kent Frizzell called me from Pine Ridge. He stated that he thought they had pretty much wr~pped up an agreement, advising me that he had just left thetr talks at Wounded Knee. Briefly he outlined the proposed settlement: He was requesting a letter from Leonard Garment of the White House addressed to the Teton Sioux headmen and chiefs, verifying that a meeting of the least five presidential representatives would take place with them during the third week of May; the funeral of Lawrence (Buddy) LaMont would be held in Wounded Knee on Fri~ay or Saturday, and the village would be opened up for Indian people to attend the funeral; the dispossession of arms would take place prior to the scheduled funeral, but there would be no federal entry into or searches ofWounded Knee _for a p~riod of 72 hours, although at the expiration of that time penod there would occur a bi-laterally-supervised "disarmament" and "pull-back" by both sides. He stated that the reason he was calling me was that Leonard Crow Dog and o_thers in Wounded Knee had asked that I be brought back mto Wounded Knee, and that I receive the letter from the White House and deliver it to the headmen and chiefs in Wounded Knee. He expressed his hope that the outline would materialize into a final resolution. He asked if I would return to South Dakota as a courier with the White House letter and to be available for any counseling . 
Kent Frizzell further indicated that time was a crucial fac­tor in finalizing an agreement and procedure for ending the armed confrontation. He informed me that all points had not yet then been cleared with the White House and that it would still be necessary to draft a letter that would be accep­table to Leonard Garment and other officials. Frizzell asked if I could be ready to catch a plane to South Dakota as soon as_ a letter would be ready. (He did suggest that they would reimburse me for travel, inasmuch as the time requfrements 
~ould pretty much obligate a personal delivery in any mstance, and my expenses should be picked up as well as anyone else's would bt!. I did not, nor have I, requested governmental reimbursement.) Finally, he advised me that he would be back in touch with me, and that I should main-, tain contact with Brad Patterson's office for purposes of receiving the letter. , 
. Shortly after talking with Frizzell, Mary Bergren called to 
mform me that she had called Senator Abourezk and had as­
sured the Senator that there were no plans whatever for a 
police assault on the village and that all rumors to the con­
tra~y should be discounted and ignored. On a confidential 
basis, b_ut not totally restricted, I advised her ofthe substance 
of my Just conclude~ conversation with Kent Frizzell. She 
s:emed pl7ased by this n_ews and expressed a view that the In­
dian Affatrs Subcommittee s~10uld be_ advised privately of 
the new developments and thetr potential promise for an end 
t~ the confrontation. I did not interpose any objections but 
dad suggest that caution or skepticism would probably' still 
be ~arranted. (In one of the I?ore perverse sidelights to the 
entire Wounded Knee expenence, I was called within an 
hour after completing my talk with Kent Frizzell by Mr 
Gerald R. Gereau, Professional Staff Member of the Senat~ 
Interior and ~nsu~ar Affai~s Committee, who, purporting to 
have talke~ prev10usly wi~h Senator Abourezk about my 
planned tn.r, _made ce_rtam offers of assistance relating 
to the alleviat10n of tnbal oppositions to my travel. At­
(Over) 

tempting to learn precisely what Frizzell might have told the Senator, I questfoned Mr. Gereau about his sources.of Information -only to learn that he had not talked with Senator Abourezk at all. Mr. Gereau at that time gave me his unlisted home phone number ( 628-3124); then later lied to an inquiry of Senator Henry M. Jackson (or Jerry T. Verkler, Staff Director) to claim that he had not talked with me at all until the afternoon of May 4 -a day-and-a-half after his post-midnight call to me. On my way to South Dakota, I wrote a letter to SenatorJackson protesting Mr. Gereau's at­titudes and actions ofopposition and ofinterference with my invited or requested "mission". The Senator had the oppor­tunity to answer after the Wounded Knee confrontation had ended. Nonetheless, I understand that Mr. Gereau wrote a lengthy denial of my allegations, a denial of his own statements to and converstations with myself, indicating that most the content ofmy own letter was "absolutely false", and that his own concerns had been those of preventing myself from speaking in the-name ofthe Senate Committee in my ef­forts to overthrow the Oglala Sioux tribal government, or words to that effect. It was a thoroughly weired episode!) 
The following day, I checked several times with Brad Patterson and Kent Frizzell regarding the proposed letter and my availability to make delivery. Surprisingly, the draf­ting of the letter was only nearing completion at the end of May 3 -and Leonard Garment had not yet been fully ad­vised in its premises or been available long enough to give ap­
proval to content. By Friday morning, it appeared that Kent Frizzell felt he had better command of the situation at Wounded Knee and greater confidence than he had expressed Tuesday night. It became obvious that I personally had become less essential to the outcome, with Frizzell advising me that the final decision on whether I should deliver the letter or someone else should be utilized would be made by Brad Patterson. I had made reservations on every Rapid City flight schedule since Thursday morning -but when advised by Mr. Patterson at mid-day Friday 
that the letter was ready along with an explanatory note to Kent Frizzell, I was caught against a fully-booked flight. I left for Rapid City on Friday evening, carrying the two sealed letters provided me at the White House. Also, I carried a copy of each ofthe two, hiding them upon myself as "security copies" -against any unexpected, yet possible, attempts which might be taken to prevent their delivery. 
Wilson Stops Adams' Re-Entry 

Having unscheduled delays in a plane transfer in Minneapolis, I called Kent Frizzell to advise of. my an­ticipated arrival time and to learn _of the general plan otac­tion. He informed me that Dick Wilson had learned agam of my travel plans and purposes and had declared that I ~ou!d not be permitted under any circumstances to arnve m Wounded Knee. He said he would check with Fools Crow to find out what he wanted to do, whether wanting me to be brought into Wounded Knee, to his home, or perhaps meet at some place off the Pine Ridge Indian Reservatfon. He suggested we get back in touch eith~r later th~t night after arriving in Rapid City or the following mormng. 
The following morning, Kent Frizzell called me at ~he 
legal offices. He informed me that the headmen and chiefs 
had agreed to have the White House letter delivered to them 
at Scenic off the reservation. We arranged to meet there at 
10 a.ril. I'rode with Ramon Roubideaux to Scenic, where a 
CRS agent informed us that the delivery sit: had been 
changed to the Reservation boundary. Approximately 100 
(see page 64) 

PRIVATE STRANGERS 
( continued from page 34) 
were together a st~ange coating of invisibility cover 
and they became immune. "How would you like t? go to a movie tonight?" ventured not really wantmg to waste time doing S 
h.
t mg. "I'm really very tired. I'd prefer to go back to the ro relax. We could light a fire in the fireplace and d011lllld 
d. h. " o an....

rea mg or somet mg. -~ "I'd prefer the 'or something'," Simon smiled. H surprised that she preferred relaxation to recreatio:.;: seemed burdened with thought but her burden couldn't sibly appr?~ch the one he s~ouldered daily; a disinter:: wife, a dismtegrated marnage held together by an llll­suspecting son, the stretched link in a flimsy chain. "Maybe you'd better consult a doctor, I'll make an appointmenu; you in the morning -" or 
"That won't be necessary," Joyce said. "I saw my dnM-
D ' I' f" """"1

three weeks ago. on t worry, m me; passed the physical in flying colors. To quote the doctor, I'm 'healthy as a horse'.• "Sounds like you went to see a veterinarian," Sitnon laughed. 
"Does it?" 

He watched her stare turn away from him yet he was cap­tivated by it. He had intended to make her laugh, force herto bare the flawless teeth hiding behind her rigid lips. He didn't want their meeting to begin on such a serious note; that could come later. He quickly withdrew his smile remembering her off-beat sense of humor. He'd tried to penetrate it before without success; it was his wife that labeled him a comedian and told him so regularly. For an instanthesawhiswife,not Joyce -laughing her crude hyena-laugh that embarrasaed him in the presence of friends. But that would soon be over now and his brain extinguished her as quickly as a new total on a computer. "You see," Joyce began, efficiently munching her salad. "rm pregnant." She raised her eyelids and looked at him as if challenging a reaction. 
Simon casually wiped Roquefort smudges from his lips. •1 don't know how they manage to have such crisp lettuce every time we come here," he said. "They must have a patch somewhere out on the roof." 
Joyce laughed a quiet, discreet laugh. "I must say you're certainly super-suave about this." 
"I don't mean to be," Simon said, "and I certainly don't think it's funny. It's uh, an interesting development -very interesting." 
"-a crisp situation, wouldn't you say?" 

Simon laid the fork beside his plate and watched her co:; tinue eating. He assumed she took adequate measures avoidance and now faced with the inevitable, regarded the final decision as hers-he had no legal hold on her. Thoush he never checked or demanded dis~ret~on,_he interpreted/: condition as a surrender to the nestmg mstmct yet he rev~ttle in the thought. Timing was awkward, there_ could be the doubt about that, but Simon had previously set machinery in motion and a shift into high gear co~ld be: complished with little difficulty. "What are you going to 
about it?" he asked. . " od old Again Joyce laughed. "How typical," she said. Go typical Simon." man ii "That's not fair and you know it. T_odar's wo u'ie blessed with many options regarding childbirth. If:;td." pregnant it can only mean that you want to ha~e a;ild,, "That's right, Simon, Bullseye! I do want this c · 


. g at her neckline, Simon's senses fogged with the and white blurs and scratchy doctor an­

rnents of a hospital memory. Peering through an­.,un~e glass in the maternity ward, the nurse held up his son, tiSCP~fy displaying its too-large head wrapped in a thick i,<>~ of pink skin that seemed applied rather than at­r;aatt~g And now that embryo had ballooned to full size, was .,cbe ~aiting his signature on a dotted line to float away into onlY :ver airstream awaited him. H~ had always been a ,tia~rous child and now, flatly refusmg college, he would rebe 1his masculinity by ~scaping his mother's grasp for s1io;lons of the Marine eagle. With his son's flight, Simon the would escape the clutches of a scorned woman. He fell !oO, this plan shortly after meeting Joyce. "You're sure you 111tot this child?" Simon asked. 
fin . b . ?"
~Are you suggestmg an a ort1on. ~No, of course not. It's just that it'll mean many changes 
,, -Joyce smiled. "It sure will," she said. "But let's not discuss this any further now. I really didn't want to begin our visit 
'th such personal news. You're not mad, are you?" Yil~oon't be silly," Simon said. "How could I possibly be 1113d at you? . . . . 
Later, in Room 437, the fire had licked its way mto a smaller glow, its crackles of rage diminished to murmurs of warmth. White bricks of an accent wall dazzled with orange flickers, the slosh of bathroom activity halted and Joyce recognized the buzz ofSimon's Norelco. She lay sideways on the carpeting, her blonde curls contrasted against zebra stripes of two pillows, a book spread flat beside her. They always exchanged gifts their first night, nothing fancy, but the chemise nightgown she wore and Simon's gold tunic were examples. This time Joyce brought him an initialed tie clasp; the D.H. Lawrence had been his gift. 
Later, while huddled together savoring an ultimate gift Simon punctured the quiet ecstasy. "I've got to tell you something important," he said. 
Joyce sat up, propped a pillow into the small of her back and clutched the sheet to her bosom. "I've got to tell you something," she said. 
"/ think you should know," they began in unison. Simon laughed, "Go ahead," he said. "No, it's okay," Joyce said, her tone suddenly very serious. "As a gentleman, I insist-" · Twisting her hips into attentive position, Joyce turned her 
eyes toward him. "The baby's not yours, Simon," she began quietly. "You see, I'm getting married tomorrow and I came here earlier today to take care of transferring my orders to the home office -" 
_Simon's eyes widened. "You're getting married?" his voice raised. "Oh, come off it -you're putting me on!" 
"What's the matter Simon, do you think I'm incapable? That's always been your trouble, you've always considered me an ornament of satisfaction -" "~re you really getting married?" Simon asked. Her nod triggered a defense mechanism and he felt the vacuum in his bowels quickly fill with anger. "I've always considered you an ornament?" he said. "What about me? I'm the ornament; \Mohawk ornament. I think people who live in glass houses s ~Uldn't throw stones!" t let's be civil about this, Simon," Joyce said quietly. "Try ..~ remember that I didn't have to tell you." Her face blushed. 
could've just disappeared." cyDesperately attempting composure, Simon turned his ~s away. "Yes, I suppose you could have," he said. to He's really a wonderful person -we've been going gether for about three months ..." 
IND/AN VOICE .47 

Simon's eyes filled with the buzz of passing images and he scarcely heard her enthusiastic tones. He heard only girlish laughter when she scored a strike; saw only her broad smile when she leaped the net in victory; the efficient way she placed her utensils atop an emptied plate. He had pictured them in that austere delivery room, he holding her clenched hand, he comforting her through the anguish of childbirth, together capturing a moment of supreme exultation. Suddenly he felt very lonely, scarred. 
"... don't you see. I mean after all, Simon, I'm a two-time loser that's never raised a family like you have. I don't want to miss out: I never have. I really love him-you and I are more like brother and sister with sex thrown in and I hope, I know we'll always remain the best of friends." Her face shone like a fine crystal goblet, yet its familiarity seemed to take on a hard, metalic lustre uncompromising in its finality. 
"I hope you'll be very happy," ·simon said. When he turned on his side he felt her warmth against his back and an arm encircled his chest. 
In summation, Joyce told him she was leaving on the 7 
A. M. plane, her ceremony would be at two. Though invited, Simon declined. After watching headlight glows stutter into oblivion through slits in the blinds and hearing the whine of big-ribbed tires accompanied by diesel crescendos, Simon attempted sleep. . 
When the phone rang he grabbed the receiver at half-ring. He accepted the polite song of a taped voice announcing time, weather-prediction, breakfast menu, and with a jurist's gaze evaluated patches of· feminine flesh peeking, as if peeled, from beneath the sheet. This morning, tugging at her shoulder, he noticed a drab, half-lit face struggle to overcome imperfection's sting. Snagging his brain, coating it with remorse, Joyce seemed ugly and Simon reeled in disbelief fighting the influence of hurt's power. She suggested taking a taxi to the airport but Simon, being a mall! of habit, insisted on performing his dutiful chore. 
After feasting on coffee, they infiltrated rush-hour's tangle with familiar precision; thoughts, words and deeds still . bruised with sleep. In the terminal building, the clack of Joyce's boots recorded their progress across the marble while her Pullman tugged Simon's grip in corresponding rhythms. Joyce asked, "What was your news? You forgot to tell me," and Simon said, "My son ... he's finally decided on a college and we're going to Massachusetts together to look over the campus." 
"That's nice," Joyce said. She took her bag and kissed him on the cheek, her stare complicated and haunting, its depth denying betrayal. "Good-by Simon," she said. 
Questioning the thing they had never named, he watched her until she vanished into a cave in the gleaming fuselage. He went up the stairs to the observation balcony, leaned against its iron balustrade and contemplated. He weighed the possibility of her return next month, she did say transferred not cancelled. Companionship was a good thing to have in your favor, it even outweighed love in certain cir­cumstances. She'll be back, he thought. Or will she? 
In the distance, he saw her jet approach take-off position and it occurred to him that he didn't know what her married name would be. Emitting a porpoise grin, the 727 turned in awkward splendor, revved its motors and began acceleration. As its laddered windows sped by, its nose raised and he almost shouted "Come back -I'm getting a divorce -I love you," into the shrieking exhaust whistle. 
-RICHARD G. GREEN 
(Oneida) 
NIGHTMARES IN THE BIA ... 
(contunued from page 37) 
It reads: A CA RAV AN OF INDIANS WILL CAMP AT THE OUTSKIRTS OF WASHINGTON THRU JANUARY 19-21, 1973, TO HOLD A SPIRITUAL CEREMONY AT ARLINGTON NATIONAL 
· CEMETERY FOR OUR BOYS WHO WERE KILLED IN LAOS AND CAMBODIA. WE KNOW YOU WILL BE BUSY THAT WEEKEND DIRECTING THE BOMBING AND CELEBRATING THE INAUGURAL PARADE AND BALL. SINCE YOU WILL SPEND $4 MILLION ON A MASQUERADE, WE FEEL YOU COULD CONTRIBUTE TO A WORTHY CAUSE. YOU WON'T TRICK US THIS TIME, WILL YOU DICK? OTHERWISE, WE'LL TAKE OVER THE WHITEHOUSE FOR FOOD AND SHELTER." 
"Mr. President -sir, are you still 
there?" "Yes, Morton!" "If they get a hold of the records at the 
White House, people will find out how this country is really run. We'll be out of a job." 
"I know that very well, Morton. Does Bruce have anything to do with this?" "I understand he's out there with them, sir?" 
-JOHN COYOTE 
THE LAST CATAWBA . .. 
(contunuedfrom page 19) 
county. His mother was Margaret G. Brown, a Catawba· Indian, and his father was Sam Blue, a white farmer, who operated a grist mill near the town of Fort Mill. When Chief Blue was a small child, his father died. 
At the age of 14, he married Minnie Hester George. They had three children before she died. Then he married Louisa Hester Canty, who some say was a full­blooded Indian, but others say she was not. They lived on the reservation for 60 or more years, raising about 12 children. 
In 1955 the tall, lean Catawba chief sat in faded blue overalls, while he talked with Jane D. Brown, who at the time was writing the Catawba history. He said: 
"I never went to school a day in my life, so I had no education ... I was chief of the tribe twenty years. I was elected chief by votes; I didn't inherit it .... During my period we was under the state, wards of South Carolina. Now we are under the federal givernment, and we aren't treated near as good as we were when we was under the wards of the state. . . " 

Federal guardianship of Catawba In­
dians began in 1934, when Senator 
Elmer Thomas of Oklahoma reported 
to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs 
by saying, "Some 175 remnants of this 
band (are) located on a tract of prac­
tically barren rock and gradually 
starving to death." 
. During the years of the great depres­
sion, the Catawbas made numerous re­
quests for aid from the federal govern­
ment. Finally in 1934 Congress passed a 
resolution which transferred title of 
Catawba land from the state to the 
federal government within the Bureau 
of Indian · ·Affairs. The federal 
government, then in cooperation with 
the state government, appropriated 
large sums of money for the 
"rehabilitation" of the Indians. They 
purchased lands adjacent to the old 
reservation and built homes, roads, 
educational facilities and dug wells. 
At first, during the 25 years the Catawbas were under the Bureau of In­diari · Affairs, they prospered. They in­creased their number from 327 to 539. They established their own tribal government and adopted a constitution, but continued to elect chiefs as they had for years. This always was done under the careful scrutiny of government of­ficials. 
In effect the Bureau of Indian Affairs approved or rejected each movement the Catawbas made. In that sense the Catawbas felt their freedom was in­fringed upon. Chief Blue, whose tribal leadership was mostly under the federal government, said in 1958, "The land on which the Catawbas live does not belong to them," referring to the strict federal control. 
It was this feeling of oppression that made the Catawbas sever relations with federal government. Catawba historian Jane D. Brown described the younger generation ·as follows: 
"In this mid-twentieth century, there was more white blood than red flowing in the veins of the Catawbas. The rising generations, more informed and better educated, were no longer content to suffer the deprivations of their forefathers. They expecially wanted lands to be held in their own name, free from legal restrictions. Individual ownership, they felt, would remove limitations that impeded attempts toward financial self-help and im­provement. They pleaded for the op­portunity that would afford greater freedom in the use of 

hke other American cit• lilted to .. ~le_tely free to determine:~ -eoa.,.
tm1es." CU' 0"8, 
On March 28, 1959 about th 
before Chief Blue's death a Ill ~--­
held in the old school h eetina 
reservation. There, the tJ;::J on tbe 
voted 40 to 17 to have C ~ 
Rober Hemphill from York0~&relaanaa 
trod uce a bill to Congress t 1lllty ha. 
federal control of the Catawbaol ~ II 
. In August, Congressman Hlldiaaa. mtroduced that bill to Con 
September 9th the bill passed i~ House of Representatives and 
~enate. President Eisenhower si . 
mto law on September 21, j~ 
months after Chief Blue's death. 
When Catawba freedom became law, 631 Catawba Indians went on t._. own, without Chief Blue's leadC!lhiP Their long desired day had r~ arrived. The land surrounding their an­cient burial ground was now 1ep11y theirs for their private use. They were restored to their ancient mode of life, living on their own land as they pleued, like their ancestors before the wbi• men came. 
But as a tribe, not like their anceston, several vital parts were missing. They had no language. Chief Blue was the Jut to speak the language. They had no fuD­blooded Catawbas. The last full-blood, Robert Lee Harris, died in 1954. They had no traditions or customs. Chief Blue knew a few folk tales, which he told to Dr. Frank G. Speck and L. G. Carrin 1947: They had no identity. The Catawbas were now living like their white neighbors, the residents of Rock Hill, South Carolina. Today descendents of Catawba Indians stiD live as a group about 10 miles west (I Rock Hill, South Carolina. Manf. h:-" sold their lands and the original reservation has been greatly ~~ Many have moved away and~•­outside the tribe, but for th~se s~-~ the ancient burial ground 1s still sau;a~ to them. 
Their former leaders, culture, aad language are also there, buried per-:forever. Chief Samuel Taylor Blue, last Catawba Indian, is· among thedl­
-JIM LAR~ 
(NavaJo1 


oVBLE AT TONGUE RIVER fll nuedfrom page 24) 
(contu 
.de the answer. At this writing the Cheyennes are 

pro:ning to resist ~he situation, ~ut a~e_stip ex~re_ipely_short, 
i,egtboth information and fundmg. Even with the Land 
0~ers Association alerting the people as best it can, while 
O council searches for legal means to protect the 
the rvation, lack of necessary funds and information is 
:;~ling their efforts. They desperately need help from 
tside sources. 

ouThe Northern Cheyenne Land Owners Association has no 
U-time· employees., All members must work elsewhere to 

f~pport their families, which makes it very difficult for them 
: spend the_ necess~ry time going ?ack and forth across the 
0
reservation mformmg and educatmg the people about the unminent danger they face. On February 24th ofthis year the Association held a feast for the people and invited outside experts to talk about the realities ofstrip mining. There were Navajos from Four Corners. Dr. Gordon of the University of Montana discussed pollution effects on plant life, on ecology, on stock, on wild life. He showed slides, but it was difficult for Indians to grasp the effects of pollution since they have never encountered anything like it. 
In the coming months the Land Owners Association plans more feasts, with more information. However, they must have more data in order to translate it into terms the people can understand. They require studies and appraisals of the effects strip mining would have on the type of ecology on their reservation: papers from Universities, posters, slides ­research articles on coal development. They need specific information on what happens to the water table after strip mining. They also need funding for this effort. 
The council, meanwhile, needs legal advice in order to gain injunctions to immediately stop the exploiters from moving in. The BIA is of no avail, particularly since they are one of the litigants. For example, it is contrary to the constitution to dispossess people of property without either their consent or by due process oflaw. The Council, through the BIA and the Secretary of Interior signed documents which threaten to do precisely this. If such suits were brought, either by individual tribal members or by members of the current council against the old council, or both then an injunction could be obtained until suit was settl~d. If the government invokes condemnation of property ( due process) this takes five or ten years and during that time, at_ least, the reservation would be spared. But for all of th1~, legal council is required, and the Cheyennes are short 
Of It. 
It is vital to all Indian People to be aware of the situation at Tongue River, and to spread the news. Ifit becomes well ~own, the coal combines may hesitate to try and expedite 
this sort of scheme elsewhere. Ifthe people are not ignorant of ~h~se matters, then they cannot be victimized through !heir •~norance. Indian Voice, will make every attempt to do JUst this. If we, and other Indians and friends of the Indian a~e successful, it may yet prove that the beautiful Tongue !•ver reservation for which the gallant Cheyenn~s fought so ng and hard may still be saved for them. If·we are even lllore diligent, many other threatened Indian lands can be ~V~d. But if we fail the Cheyennes, then the chain ofjoined b dian hands across this ravaged country of ours may be 
roken, and the light go out. 
-JEAN McLEAN 
(Lakota) 
IND/AN VOICE 49 

SECOND BATTLE OF WOUNDED KNEE 
(contunued from page 22) 
Act was to prevent the arbitrary exercise of power by the Secretary of the Interior (over Indian people) which had oc­curred prior to 1934. Tribal constitutions written and governments established under that Act can only be terminated by the Congress or · by the Indian people themselves according to established procedures." 
Stanley Lyman, BIA Pine Ridge Agency Superintendent: 
"I'm glad it's over and I'm sorry it had to happen. Now the real work begins-work for progress. A lot of people and_~ lot of agencies will have to work well together. The BIA is willing and ready to do just that." 
Vernon Bellecourt, AIM national co-director: "People have discovered for themselves how the government breaks treaties. We woke up the conscience of America and now all Indian people are ready to stand up for their rights. Indian Nations all over America will rise up and fight for sovereign government as a result of Wounded Knee. It is inevitable." 
Aftermath 

For the occupiers, their supporters and leaders, a tangled maze of legal procedures awaited them after they evacuated. There had been more than 300 arrests made in relation to the takeover by the time they finally abandoned the historic Sioux village haunted by many tragic memories. Much of the top leadership of the American Indian Movement (AIM), which was invited into Wounded Knee also faced criminal indictments both during and following the takeover. 
Russell C. Means, 33, AIM director ofthe local Porcupine chapter, already faced 11 criminal counts during the takeover, as did AIM Minneapolis Director Clyde Bellecourt. AIM Oklahoma Coordinator Carter Camp and AIM Spirituaf Leader Leonard Crow Dog surrendered to federal authorities in nearby Rapid City the night before the final evacuation, where Camp also faced 11 criminal charges. Establishment of a legal defense fund for those charged was underway before the occupation ended. 
(Over) 


Eleven-count secret indictments against a total of 69 GREAT 1974 INDIAN BUDGET LOG-JAI\f 
persons were prepared during the conven~ng of two fed~ral (Continued/ram page 11) grand juries in eastern South Dako_ta while the occupat10n 
was still underway. The 11 counts include: 

Two counts for burglary, three separate counts for as­saults on federal officers, two separate counts ofobstructing federal officers during a civil disorder, two separate counts of arson, one count of larceny and one count of conspira~y. 
Means and four others also faced another federal in­dictment stemming from charges that they conspired to transport arms illegally into Wounded Knee across state lines. Charged were Means; Stanley R. Holder, ~3, Lawton, Okla.; Eugene C. Heavy Runner Jr., 23, Browning, Mont.; Ronald D. Petite, 37, Minneapolis, Minn.; and Herbert G. Powless, 35, Milwaukee, Wisc. 
For residents of Wounded Knee difficult times appeared to lie ahead. Official tribal records indicated that a total of52 Indian households were located within the limits of Wounded Knee village. Many of those homes reportedly suffered internal and external damages, and some few were set afire. Damages and losses to personal property were reported to be widespread. And the ?nly trading post in the village, which had served as a credit and trade c~nter for most of the area residents, mysteriously went up in flames during the last several days of the occupat~on. The trading post and some of its alleged customer practices had become the focus of controversy in recent years. 
Electrical, water and sewer systems also required repairs. But the most long-lived problem promised to be the repairing of human relationships following a split among the viitagers themselves toward the occupation and its meaning. In jails far away an? near,. and on the cale_nda~s of m~ny courts, Indians await hearings and determinat10ns which mean that Wounded Knee and its aftermath will be much in 
the public eye  -and  on the public mind  -for many  
months to come.  
-RICHARD LA COURSE  



(Yakima-Umatilla) 
* 

Contribution of funds for legal defense and bail bonds for persons charged in connection with the Wounded Knee takeover Feb. 27-May 8 should be made_to the following ad­dress, according to legal defense attorneys: 
Wounded Knee Legal Defense/Offense Committee 
c/ o Atty. Ramon Roubideaux 
P.O. Box 147 
Rapid City, S.D. 57701 

In addition-, a separate fund for the redevelopment and reconstruction of the village of Wounded Knee has been an­nounced by the inter-denominational Joint Strategy and Ac­tion Committee (JSAC) of the Protestant Churches of America as follows: 
Wawokike Fund 
Margaret Hawk, Acting Administrator 
Pine Ridge, S.D. 57770 

Checks and other contributions to the latter fund will be employed to assist all persons in need in connection with the events of the takeover, according to a JSAC spokesman. 
deployme~t of progra~s_to ot?er federal agencies. 
1
is the funding and admimstration of Indian Comm ~ tion-Programs (ICAP), urban demonstration cenuntty~ Legal Services. The budget request reads, "Cons• tetera, 111d 
. k . . 18 m
the policy to ma e commumty action funding decia· local option, direct federal grants to Indian commwJ I tion ~gencies w~ll cease. Instead, grants will be madedi~L to tribal councils who can then elect to continue 1i;-~ munity action agencies or to 1;1s~ the !unds in otherwaysC:: will implement the Admimstration's policy of lel determination for Indians." 
Some functions, including ICAP and Legal Se!'icea, would be transferred to HEW (Department of H~ Education and Wel~are). ICAP funds~ some $32 millionia the 1974 request, will follow Congressional action d~ whether to allow the overall plan for OEO dismantl~ and the legal restraints on that destruction. Legal Servicea,if eventually transferred, would depend on autho~ legislation for a legal services corporation, a measure which failed to materialize in the last congress. 
The administration's plans~or OEO nationwide becamea crucial issue for urban CAP and legal services recipients and workers, including the federal employees union which filed suit to block the dismantling and slowdown offunds to local agencies already in progress, under new OEO director Howard Phillips. The first legal determination came from 
U.S. District Court in Washington, D.C.,earlyinApril,and encouraged supporters of OEO by stating that reductions in funding could not be justified by reference to unrelated government anti-inflationary policy. That decision did not decide the legality ofthe executive branch refusing to request funding for an agency, nor an agency cutting out individual OEO recipients because of, for instance, inefficiency or mil­conduct. 
The Washington Post, April 19, reported on an in-home OEO report that allegedly cited communist affiliation and misuse of funds as reasons to withhold funds from the Intertribal Council of California. The Intertribal Council replied to an inquiry by stating that the organization accmed of the misuse of funds and communist affiliation was~~ associated with the Council but had been confused with.it because OEO had grouped the two organizations togetherm a funding package. The organization was dropped fr~ package and transferred to Legal Services, at th_e Co_ ITC request. Funding has since been assured for Califo":n through March, 1974, with the likeliho?d that HEW da':_ sume administration ofthe funds sometime before that 
OEO Legislation 
· ·1arbills,
House Concurrent Resolution 138,_and other Slmt f oEO. have been introduced to block the dismantlement O d and The proposals also seek the rele~s~ of ~rogram fun sucsll would require the renewal ofadministration budget rea ­for OEO. HCR.138 will be considered by the b roand Education and Labor Committee, and the Senate~ 0 tbel' Public Welfare Committee, concurrently wit ds 0trOO­legislative proposals dealing with OEO programs an'ttee 08 ture. The House Education and Labor Subcom;; 1,otb
3
Equal Opportunities began hearings Fe?ruary 8, I ­home-based and in the field. These hearings were c~':,g aad
5
with specific legislative proposals (HR.5478, HR. ) ~ 
others· continue Legal Services, preserve OEO, etc. ;,­as doc~mentation ofreaction to the President's prop OEO. 


Indian Testimony 
al Indian CAP direct?rs and Trib~l represen!atives 

S~~eJ early in the Washmgton hearmgs, as did the teStt_fie al Congress of American Indian (NCA!). NCAI Nauo;d the deleterious effects of the present fundmg r~d~c­su-ess d the uncertain status of programs now receivmg uons.an Comparing this estimate with the President's 1970 fun~•~g~essage to Congress, NCAI urged "all ~embers of Jndta to act immediately to assure that Indian CAA's congressnity Action Agencies) and their programs be (C0~:~ with adequate interim funding to carry them prov• ~ the phase over to the alternate funding sources and throug h assurances be given sufficient time to prevent the 
that sue . ,,
ctive effects of our present uncertamty. destru Effman Executive Director of the Intertribal
George . , . . . . h . 

·1 of Cahforma, saw an addit10nal threat mt e impen­counct sfer of Inter-tribal funding status to the individual 
·ng tran .
d1 
nd communities as recommended m the Federal As-

Tribes a ' EO 
. Review (FAR) report, and noted that 0 
51Stance · · · f BIA
ms frequently pay the admmistrative costs or prora d HEW programs that the ITC of California now E~ -~~~ers. His recommendation was, like NCAI's, for the 
aom1 . . . f d.
Congress to establish mtenm un mg. . . . . 
Phillip Martin, Chairman of the Mississippi Chocta~, dd d an historical viewpoint that sought to remove the is­:ue ~rom the particular funding and programs of OEO now 
existing.
"Office of Economic Opportunity programs have been more effective [than any other] because the approach to reservation development utilized by the OEO Indian desk has been designed in recognition of the fundamental as­sumptions and objectives which underlie the federal pol~cy of Indian self-determination, [and that is] they recogmze that the long run goals of all tribal development efforts are: 
a) to achieve a reversal of the physical and psychological conditions of rural poverty which generally characterize In­dian populations; b) to substitute tribal control for federal management of Indian reservations. 
Other federal agencies have verbally recognized the legitimacy of these long-range goals but only OEO has r~­sponded with programs specifically designed to effect their accomplishments ... It is clear to me that the possible loss of 0EO's flexible and realistic approach to, reservation development would do far more long-range damage to the Indian people in general and to the Mississippi Choctaws in particular than would the dissolution of OEO as . an independent agency and the transfer ofits programs to other federal agencies." -Testimony of Phillip Martin before the House Sub­committee on Equal Opportunity, February 8, 1973 
With OEO programs being funded locally at re~uced levels for 30-day intervals, the future of OEO, symbo!ically the last stronghold of the War on Poverty, rested m the hands of Howard Phillips for a short period oftime. Curren­tly, the action of the court and the pending resolve of Con~ress, specifically as related to t?e legislative polic7 lllakmg ability of the Congress in relation to the Presidents administrative powers, have temporarily swung the balance enough to assure continued funding for some OEO Programs, and to maintain the future of OEO as an ~nresolved question. The Equal Opportunity Subcommittee ~ currently undecided on continuing hearings, but it does intend to report out OEO legislation by the end of May. 
Indian Health and Education: The Crisis at HEW 

Social services funds are again the most hotly contested area of policy making and funds expenditure. Within these, 
IND/AN VOICE 51 

the biggest concern is focused on the HEW budget proposed by the President, and the proposed Appropriations Act for annual, controllable expenditures. In the Act can be seen the single, most visible, Indian related program_ that has the potential of arousing enough national attent10n to force a showdown of proportion. Also in HEW, the matter of FY 1974 funding has been overshadowed by the prospect of severely reduced funding for this current fiscal year, ending June 30, 1973, and by the terms of the debate: Has the executive taken over policy making? 
Also held over from the FY 1973 funding dispute has been the $500 million in impact aid and related disaster relief ~nd construction monies, part of which directly affects Indian children in public schools. Not until April 13, 1973, did_ the administration announce their release, under a revised formula. Another HEW related development, the proposed legislation for social services in fifteen b~lls voted for but vetoed by the President at the conclus10n of the 92nd Congress, have become the rallying point for congressional protest and unity. However, the first two of these measures were not sufficient to arouse enough congressional support to override the vetoes this . session. The vocational rehabilitation bill did not succeed in being carried over a veto, and subsequently, the water projects development bill failed. For HEW, it is apparent that the battle over the FY 1973 budget is not over, and without clear lines ofsettlement, will merge into the next fiscal year's battle. For example, the administration's budget request for the Indian Health Service (IHS) for FY 1974 shows an $8 million increase over what Congress appropriated for FY 1973. But that same re­quest asks Congress to rescind the leg~sl~tive authority _for $4.7 million in IHS before the end ofthis fiscal year, and ma later listing of reserved funds for FY 1973, the ad­ministration's Office of Management and Budget (0MB) shows that on January 26, the amount of$4.6 million in IHS to be reserved until the administrative machinery can be developed and approved. 
"Under authority delegated by the President, the Office of Management and Budget operates a system of app?rtioning the funds provided by the Congress. The apport10nments generally are for the current fis~al year ~n_d limi_t the amounts the agencies may obligate durmg specific peno~s. 
"There are occasions when the amounts ofavailable funds are not fully apportioned. That is, so~e amo~mts are eit~er withheld from apportionment, or their use is temporarily deferred. 
"The reasons for withholding or deferring the ap­portionment of available funds usually are ~oncerned w~th financial administration. They have to do with the effective and prudent use of the financial resources made availab!e by the Congress. Thus, specific apportionm~nts sometimes await 1) development by the affected agencies o~ approved plans and specifications, 2) completion of studies ~or ~he effective use of the funds, including necessary coordmat10n with other Federal and non-Federal parties that might be in­volved, 3) establishment of a necessary orga,nization and designation of accountable officers to manage t~e programs, 
4) the arrival of certain contingenci~s unde~ wh~ch the funds must by statute be available (that is, certam dire~t Federal credit aids when private sector loans are not available). 
"Under these and other related conditions the funds not apportioned are said to be held or placed in reserve ... amounts are frequently released from reserve-and put to use-during each fiscal year as plans, designs, specifications, studies, project approvals, and so on are completed. Thus, 
(Over) 
the total amount held in reserve usually reaches a low point at the end of the fiscal year. 
"... the term impoundment has generally been applied to funds which could or might be used (that is, obligated) during the apportionment time period, but which have not been apportioned because of the Executive's responsibility to 1) help keep down total Government spending within a Congressionally imposed ceiling, 2) help meet statutory limitation on the outstanding public debt, 3) develop a government wide financial plan for the current year that synchronizes program-by-program with the budget being recommended by the President for the following year, or 4) otherwise carry out broad economic and program policy ob­jectives." · 
-Senator Sam J: Ervin, Jr. 
(Note: Addressing the Senate in March of 1972, Senator Sam Ervin, (D-N.C.) cited $1.7 billion listed by 0MB as reserved at that time, and stated that these funds, part of a larger total reserved, should more properly be listed as im­pounded. He reasoned that this discrepancy in listing was in­
,dicative of Congressional-Executive differences over the budget, and could be remedied legislatively. In support ofhis argument, · he described the differences in the two designations). 
The largest amounts of Indian related funds through HEW, outside of IHS, are Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1964 (ESEA), and the Impact Aid program. The President's budget request seeks to extin­guish these programs in FY 1974, as they presently exist, and replace them with educational revenue sharing. As dis­cussed by HEW Secretary Caspar Weinberger on March 19, during testimony offered before the House General Education Subcommittee, this proposal is seen by the ad­ministration as necessary to meet efficiency requirements and to provide self-determination for all communities who receive federal educational assistance. The House Education and Labor Co)pmittee (General Education Subcommittee) has been holding hearings on the future of ESEA since January 31, 1973, having hoped to report out a bill by April. (The Senate was less confident of this action, since anti­busing "amendments appear likely to scuttle the timetable). There are several alternative bills now pending that would amend and extend ESEA, including HR.69, introduced by Rep. Carl D. Perkins (D-Ky.), chairman of the committee, and HR.5163 by Rep. Albert H. Quie (R-Minn). Quie's bill is controversial because it would allocate the ESEA funds to children on the basis of districts that have a concentration of low math and reading scores, as compared to the income of parents, the present determining factor. One major con­sideration in whatever bill is reported out ofcommittee is the updating of the census figures ( 1970) to reflect the present population-a concern nationwide. The Committee expects to conclude hearings on May 3, to be followed by the reporting out of one bill within several weeks of that date. 
ESEA's Future 
ESEA as it now stands will expire at the end of this fiscal year, but could easily be continued for one more year. The administration's educational revenue sharing proposal, en­titled the Better Schools Act of 1973, would recognize this option by including a "hold harmless" clause which would guarantee to each state and district the minimal amount equal to this year's monies. The Better Schools Act, HR.5823, as indicated by Secretary Weinberger, is reasoned to be superior to the existing category grants, including 



IND/AN VOICE 53 

Impact Aid "Support for Indian education -which totaled more than 
lfllPact Ai? is listed ~y 0MB as totaling $36,450,000 in FY 73 for Indian _education, (based on the number of persons 1\g or -~orking on federal [ta~-exemJ?t] property) in­b\11ding mihtary bases and reservations. Title I of ESEA in ~ 1913, is_ l~sted at $2~ million, biling1;1al _education at ost $3 million. A portion of these momes is set aside or S:inistere? by the ~IA_. The ~eported total for all HEW In­~-n education ~~mes, including the above stated figures is ; rnillion. This ~ncludes HEW category grants individual funding, and funding to states and districts enrolling Indians 
for FY 197_3. . . . ,
Nationwide, the admimstrat10n s Better Schools Act v,rould include $2.5 billion in obligations in FY 1974, ac­cording to the request, but only $1. 7 billion of this would be spent (outlays). The figu~e~ pre~ented. on page 471 of the budget request show admimstrat10n estimates of$2.8 billion for the program_s ~hat the Better Schools Act would replace, but on!~' $L9 bilhon as the expected outlay in FY 1974 for those prog:ams. Presumably, . this is the amount the ad­Plinistration estimates it would advise spending or would in fact spend if the Congress does not approve its Better Schools Act. No explanation is given in the budget request as to how spending less at the federal level and, one assumes, eliminating some $1. 7 billion in grants, subsidies and con­tributions now channeled through the category grants, will result in a better situation when administration is transferred to the local government. 
The budget request also makes estimates for the FY 1974 outlays for old programs it would replace, which in in­dividual cases reflect great differences with the current outlays. For example, the Impact Aid total is seen as $192 million in FY 1974, less than half the FY 1972 amount. Congress must now involve itself in a struggle to resolve these differe~c~s, either through support of the category grants or a refining ofthe revenue sharing Act for education. 
Who Asked The Indians? 

In__ all,_ it was the cumulative absence of Indian part1cip_at10n, or call it self-determination, that prompted th~ !ndia? community's most vigorous response to the ad­m1mstrat10n's budget request, especially the lack of im­ple~entation of Title IV oflast year's PL 92-318, entitled the Indian Education Act of 1972. Although Title IV was belatedly funded at a minimal $18 million in the first sup­plemental ?udget f~r FY 1973, it has not yet been im­plemented ma meaningful way. The budget request in fact 
t I . '

asked Congress_ to ac eg1s. Iat_iveIy _to rescin~ the authority ' 
for . f Title IV, which would end its existence. (Smee education unds generally remain available until they are expended it would have been tactically unwise for the administration'to ~serve the f1;1nds, and additionally, an impoundment might 
ve been difficult to defend as anti-inflationary since the ~t~l program amount appropriated was only $18 million.) it e IV was set in the category of"proposed rescissions" an 
exclusi f ' 
bud ve group o only seven ~terns_ in the entire federal a get for FY 1974. Another item in the category is the t~~u?t $4.7 J?~llion_fo~ Indian H~a_lth S~rvice. ~eportedly, a e1_s opposition within the admimstratlon agamst Title IV ~ Pol~c_y, revealing the controversy as more than a funding re 0 an~i-mflationary argument. Future appropriations for the mamder of Title IV's lifetime could be substantially larger 
th
an $18 ·ir "f .
at . mi ion, i the authorized amounts are determined 01
lb:ximu'? _level~, a?d. ful_l~ appropriated. req administration s Justification as found in the budget Uest states: 
$80 million in 1973 -is provided under several existing educational authorities. The proposed rescission would eliminate duplication of these existing authorities and programs." (Note: the $80 million figure apparently refers to HEW's Office of Education estimated obligations to programs benefitting Indians, later stated to be $92 million.) 
In an expanded statement offered on the request ofthe Ad hoc Subcommittee on lmpoundment of Funds, 0MB added: 
"The 1974 budget proposes that this amount be rescinded in light of the wide vari~!,Y of programs already providing support to the education of Indians and because the programs for which the appropriation was intended for were ~o~ the most part duplicative of existing programs ... While it is true that under parts Band C of the Indian Education Act grants could 1?e given directly to Indian organizations, Part A -for which approximately two-thirds of the $18 million appropriation would go -only provides for grants to local education agencies. Thus, less than one-third of the total $18 million would otherwise be available for allocation directly to Indian organizations." 
OMB's account is made without reference to the proposed bu~get changes in the existing category grant program, which would render half the statement no longer true and of no for~e i1:1 FY 1974. Also, this account has been criticized by the principal mover of the Title IV legislation, Senator Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass): 
"~y own review of 'existing authorities and progran s' convinced me completely that any duplication is minin:al and inconsequential. No other authority targets assistance to off-reservation Indian children; none promotes Indian con­trol ~nd involvement in education programs; none provides special resources for Indian-controlled schools or for Indian adult education programs." ' 
Outside of the spon_s~r's d~fense of his own bill, the major obstacles to the admimstratlon's attempts to end Title IV before it begins, are: 1) the symbolic and practical im­po~~nce ofT~tle IV t? the Indian community, 2) the unique po_sitlon of Title _IV in the impoundment dispute -being neit_h~r res~rv~d, impounded, obligated, or spent, and 3) its position withm the Congressional-Executive conflict over social services policy formation, especially as it is part ofthe HEW appropriations, which have already undergone two v~t~ed app~opriations bills, Congressional approval of a $1 billion cut in the total, several continuing resolutions one supplemental appropriations Act for FY 1973, and a se~ond supplemental appropriations bill now pending. That sup­pleme~tal was reported out of the House Appropriations Committee on May 3, and was reported May 10 to the full ~o~gress. (It should be noted that in considering the res­cission, the House 'Appropriations Committee referred the matter to Chairman Julia Butler Hansen's Interior Sub­committee~ whereas it would normally have fallen within the jurisdiction of the HEW-Labor Subcommittee. 
The unusual concern ofthe Indian community for the out­come over Title IV can not be disputed. The Coalition ofIn­dian Controlled School Boards (CICSB), held meetings in January to discuss the failure of 0MB to release the funds at that time. Later, in testimony before the Joint Subcommittee on Impoundment of Funds, CICSB offered this interpretation of the complete lack of Title IV funds: 
"Gentlemen, the only reason the administration has for its actions is that the President opposes the Indian Education Act and has seen fit to exert its will over the will ofCongress. 
(Over) 

We believe that there is sufficient evidence to substantiate this. Indeed, on Friday, December 23, Mr. Bradley Patterson of the White House staff, when asked by Mr. Gerald Clifford if funds would be released, stated: 'Well, you know the President opposed this bill from the beginning.' The implication is obvious; there will be no funds precisely because of this opposition." 
Although representatives of CICSB outlined the im­portance of funding to the needs of some 225,000 Indian children enrolled in public schools, the interests of the Senators expressed at the hearings were more toward the is­sue of Congressional policy making, as exemplified by this reply of Senator Childes. (D-Fla), chairman of the Ad hoc Subcommittee: 
"I think one of the great concerns of the co-introducers of the Indian bill and many Members of Congress is the fact that people are taught from the earliest time that they enter school, when the Congress passes a law, the law will be carried out and just what you are pointing out now we see is happening in all of these areas, and if the people can't have respect for law, what can they have respect for?" 
The Courts Rule 
The importance of Title IV to the Indian community is further reflected in the series of events concerning the legal right of the Commissioner of Education to refuse to spend funds authorized and appropriated. In late March, the U.S. District Court for the District ofColumbia took a deposition from John Ottina, acting U.S. Commissioner of Education, as the first part of a suit brought by the Native American Rights Fund on behalf of eight Tribes, training centers, and school districts. The suit was against Ottina, Caspar Weinberger in his former capacity as director of 0MB, the President, and others. It called for mandatory im­plementation of the National Advisory Council on Indian Education and the expending offunds for other parts ofTitle 
IV. In an accompanying affidavit from Thomas Fredericks, NARF lawyer, it is attested that Presidential Assistant Bradley Patterson told Fredericks on January 18, 1973, that Title IV funds were impounded and that the President did not support the act. 
In a meeting with Secretary Weinberger, about IO members of the National Tribal Chairmen's Association, the CICSB, the NCAI, and others, on March 30, did extract a pledge that the President would appoint the members of the National Advisory Board within weeks, but failed to clarify the status of the funds. 
A suit filed that same day by the Institute for the Development of Indian Law (IDIL) is currently being con­sidered with the NARF suit by ths same U.S. District Court Judge. A major consideration has been whether to focus the suits on the agents of the President or on the President's ac­tion as an impoundment and the President as defendant. It is thought that the legal pressures have been instrumental in obtaining an HEW commitment to issue guidelines for Title IV shortly. 
(The U.S. Office of Education announced the week of May 1, that applications for Part A of Title IV were mailed out the week of May 7. Guidelines for Parts Band Care expected to be printed in the Federal Register by June 12. However, Advisory Council appointments still await White House release). 
The Stage Is Set 
It may be just this irregular non-accounting for funds that will attract the attention of Congress, and provide the push 
-ROBERT FREEMAN 
(Dakota-Mission) 
to at least settle the matter beyond what the courts can ~ complish. The fluid terminology the administration em­ployed to describe Title IV funds may stand out at some point in the impoundment battle, making it subject to Congressional support or compromise. The first test O'ffl' HEW total funding came and went at the end of February during which time Senator McClellan (D-Ark) told his colleagues February 28: 
"House J 01nt Resolution 245, (the Continuing Resolution for FY 1973 HEW-Labor appropriations) does nothing about the limitations on impoundments which I railed yesterday by seeking to curtail the date of the whole con­tinuing resolution, which the Senate turned down at that particular time, with the general argument that it would be more appropriately raised on a supplemental. 
"I wish to give notice now, Mr. President of the Senate, that it will be raised on the supplemental, (the second .•0)!­plemental appropriations for FY 1973) I expect to raise it myself, or join others to do it, but it will be done." 
This is the last supplemental appropriation~ Act for~ 1973, and now awaits action by the full committees of: Houses. As mentioned earlier, Rep. Hansen was ask to examine the administration's rescission proposal, but ~ a special partial report can come out of that subco[llllllunced shortly, action on Title IV will follow HEW an~o ucb guidelines, contingent on further congressional action 1 as SJR.87 or the full supplemental budget. ~ 
There has been action taken on Indian related app priations, and especially Title IV, _by other Cong~ who are sympathetic to Indian issues. Senator Jaco!:-., (R-N.Y.) submitted a detailed set of questions to S Weinberger on February 8, concerning the implerne~t 
of Title IV, and received a reply on February 22. 

the Secretary ~dvi_sed that the Departi:rien_t of HEW 

uJJle,d not issue gmdelmes or accept apphcat10ns for a 
_,oid JJ1 it does not intend to fund or implement. In reply to 
progr\on about the future intentions of the Department, 
aqu;\retary made it clear at that time that only after 
the eess decides if it will rescind the legislation or not, then 
C0f would decide what steps it will take -whether to 
HE dthe funds or to further oppose their use -depending 
pe~ tors such as the-action Congress takes on other FY 
on ,ac . . 
1973 appropnat10ns. 
Feathers In The Wind 

Another directly related action was the submission of S]R 87 on March 29, by Edward M. Kennedy, asking that h ;ppointments to the National Advisory Council be made t -~bin ten days of the passage of the Resolution. In addition wt his rebuttal to the administration's rationale for res-
to C . . f
cission, Kennedy stres_sed that the omhm1ss~n~r o Education and the President do not have t e aut or_ity to fuse to carry out the law: "... we find ourselves havmg to re ss bills and resolutions saying that 'we mean really' -that :are serious about our desire that the laws be carried out. 
In this session of Congress, it seems likely that the success of separate and meaningful new Indian legislation and the funding of existing programs will be greatly affected by the federal debate and actions over impoundment, policy making, social services, and the accountability ofone branch of government to the other two. The hearings before the Im­poundment Subcommitte~, headed ?Y Senator Childs an_d highlighted by Senator Ervm, bear this out. It was before this Subcommittee on February 1, that Roy Ash, then Director­designate of 0MB made a concrete statement on what happened to the $18 million. Along with some confusion as to whether some portion of the funds had been obligated, he said,".. . they have been apportionedto the fourth quarter of this fiscal year (April 1 to June 30) in line with the Anti­deficiency Act for the purpose of allowing Congress time to consider the recommendations that were made in the budget request." 
Subsequently, as mentioned, that deadline came apart under pressure, and after the fourth quarter began, the Senate Appropriations Committee heard HEW officials 
tate that the funds still awaited congressional action, in spite of the quarter having commenced. 
Jousting the reality of this kind of accounting, Congress has projected for this session a wide range of remedies and countermeasures. Besides the Ad hoc Impoundment Sub­committee, the OEO Subcommittee, the Appropriations C~mmittees in both Houses, there are other special steps ~mg taken. One is the systematic work of the Joint Com­mittee on the Control of the Budget, which will push for a means of fiscal control. One factor that will be integrally connected with the work of these committees and special c~mmittees, are the various lawsuits that have helped and Will help define the limits of legal impoundment. 
The Judicial Branch is unavoidably involved nationally, 
d
ao , as it appears, at the level of Indian-related funding. 
-LAURA WITTSTOCK 
(Seneca) 


IND/AN VOICE 55 

INTERVIEW: VINE DELORIA, JR. 
(continued from page JO) 
were foo many demands and too many people landing on other pieces of land and the whole thing became confused. 
I think what they do is get a nice clear symbol -like at Wounded Knee -but they just don't understand when to stop. So pretty soon the symbol just fades away. 
Indian Voice: What you are saying here then is what you were quoted as saying in RED POWER that symbolic action gets symbolic reaction? 
Deloria: Yes -you said it better than I did. 
Indian Voice: Well I'm using your words. 
Deloria: But you can't convince a lot of the kids that are following the AIM movement that all the public support they have now is really excitement about excitement. Not a commitment to do anything for indians. 
Indian Voice: I assume you are speaking of the activities of the movement in general as seen through media covered events such as Wounded Knee. But are you aware that in many individual chapters there is a constant grass roots effort to aid the ordinary Indian. 
In San Jose, for example, there is an educational project for children, a video education program, an alcoholism program and many others. Jay Healy, the chairman down there is a very dedicated Indian who is not interested in . publicity or headlines or excitement but in working with the 
people to solve their problems. 
Deloria: Yes, I am aware of the fact that AIM has 
programs on the local level; but I'm refering to the public 
image as personified by their big four national leaders. 
Indian Voice: Isn't it possible that at Wounded Knee, 
some of the confusion you have spoken of regarding issues 
and objectives might stem from some differences between 
those four leaders? Particularly Means and Banks and 
Bellecourt? Bellecourt was on the outside making speeches 
and saying, "Our objective at Wounded Knee is to get the 
Foreign Relations Committee in there and have hearings on 
the Treaty of 1868 leading to more hearings on the other 371 
treaties which have been violated. Meanwhile inside 
Wounded Knee, Means was talking principally about 
impeaching Dick Wilson. 
Deloria: Yes, right now that's the ccrse, but I really think 
in general the problem goes deeper than that -the lack of 
balance and proportion in selecting and · emphasizing 
objectives applies to all of them -except maybe Dennis. 
Indian Voice: Do you feel that among these leaders there 
is any significant difference in their ability to accomplish 
things? 
Deloria: I don't really know, but I get along best with 
Dennis. Every time I've talked with him he seemed to really 
have a very significant grasp ofthe issues that were involved. 
I know that a number of times he has been able to bring the 
tribal chairman around, and to bring some NCAI people 
around to understand and focus on what was happening, 
and to really sit down and plan out some strategies. So I have 
felt much closer to Dennis in terms of what issues we can 
really agree on to pull a coalition of Indians together. 
Beyond that, I really only know Vernon (Bellecourt) to say 
hello to in Denver, we're very cordial to each other -and I 
hardly ever see Russ (Russell Means)-I see Clyde maybe 
once every two years -so it's pretty hard for me to evaluate 
how the four of them relate to each other. 
I have the feeling that if any of the other Indian 
organizations worked out a strategy, the one in AIM to 
present it to would be Dennis (Banks) because he would be 
able to see what the implications were. 
(Over) 
Indian Voice: Did you read Kill Straight's manifesto of 
AIM -what he says AIM is all about? Deloria: Virgil? Indian Voice: Yes. Deloria: No, I didn't. Indian Voice: Basically, what he says is the purpose of 
AIM is to do three things: To get the treaties delt with fairly, review the whole treaty structure and straighten it out; to resolve the problems of the Urban Indians so that they are not on the skid rows; and most importantly to regain self­determination for all Indian People so they have a soveriegn government like they used to. He doesn't specify methods for obtaining these objectives, but simply that these are the major objectives of the American Indian Movement. 
Would you agree with those objectives as being vital objectives that you could identify with and support? 
Deloria: Yes, of course, but I'd probably add another one. I think the most important current objective is to try to pull the various Indian communities together in terms of establishing a contemporary identity with each other. This would create a different feeling in each community out of which people could act as representatives of that community. 
In terms of a ten year projection of where we should be ­say we secured the land base ofsome ofthese tribes along the river -that wouldn't be very meaningful unless the community intends to do something positive once they've saved the land; That's where I think tribal governments have fallen short. They have only acted defensively and haven't gone out and proposed something positive. Saying, for example, we are going back to having traditional government is really meaningless unless you are able to go on and articulate how that is going to produce better conditions for individual communities. 
How is it going to solve some of the social problems? Just taking away the current government at Pine Ridge doesn't mean everybody is going to go back and choose eight chiefs and obey the chiefs and gain wisdom. Because that form of government is so highly controlled by customs you didn't need all these rules and regulations. People felt social responsibility in the whole kinship pattern. You didn't have to go through all the legal machinations of justifying social programs. 
Today, however, those customs have broken down to such an extent you can't just revert back to the old way without having a viable program for the transition ... I don't think the treaty problem is difficult. But I think you have to recognize you can't raise that issue in the way its being raised. What you need to do is to have the individual tribes authorize a study of their treaties and find out what they thirik are the current violations. Then send tribal representatives in to talk to individual congressmen and hand them written reports, say, "this is the text of our treaty and these are what we feel are violations, and we'd like a hearing in congress and the establishment of a new law identifying the peculiar rights we have against the states and against the federal government", and really clarify . the situation. 
If enough tribes had actually done that you could force Interior to at least hold formal hearings on whether or not we could have extensive congressional hearings on treaties. This way you get those men on the record. 
Then, if they don't do it, you bust loose with your activism. If you bust loose with your activism first, then these people say: "well, just what treaties have been violated?" And they come back with: "Well, 371 treaties have been violated." But 
they never give anyone in congress, either the the staff, a single concrete issue to hang on toe 
tct::i-. 
set up hearings to discuss it. ' 0 t ey C011Jc1 
Either self government, land restoratio hunting and fishing rights, health benefits edu n, ti taxati~ for protection of tribal members off res~rvat~ 0~, ri&hta annuities, -I could think of fifteen differen~~h~lhta to could prepare papers on saying these are specific ti::;.11 YoU p~omi_sed in treaties, and thi~ is where you are s .II YoU v10latmg them today; and mternational law l>Ccif~ domestic Indian treaty law both say that these thi:s :en II until both parties specifically repeal them Ugsd old Up 
. . h h . nertbe
constitution we ave t ese vested property right can't take them away without just compensations and You Indian Voice: But AIM has made demands i~ those areas you mention. Dlost of 
Deloria: Sure, but not specific demands in one area time, with a concrete statement of the rights and at 1 violation. At Wounded Knee, even though they didn't bathe anything legal prepared, they could have gotten Fullbri.: to give hearings on the treaty if they hadn't bugged up tbe works by five or six other unrelated demands before he could get around to considering the first one. 
Indian Voice: There is a problem with the 1868 treaty in that it promised to the Lakota Nation forever all the land from the Missouri to the Big Horn Mountains and from tbe Canadian border to the Platte, including, ofcourse, the Paha Sapa (Black Hills). How, realistically could that treaty be honored, and how could we negotiate with the government? 
Deloria: Well, you've taken one text out of one treaty _ it's difficult to say just what specifically would come out of hearings on it. But that 1868 series isn't really a good treaty to deal with in trying to establish a principle for legislation. If you want to really force the issue, use the Choctaw treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek. They are very specific in that one: "This land herein specified the Choctaw People have full title to. The United States will never enclose this land within the boundries of a state without their permission." 
That treaty has the best and most concrete statement of the three really strong points that people think should be raised about the treaty of 1868, and which can be raised about other treaties too, more forcefully, as in the Choctaw treaty, because they are more concrete. Tax exemption on the land, for example -there were a series of treaties in the Ohio Valley where the government says: "so long as this land remains in Indian hands it may never be taxed at all"! Thatil straight out -one of the strongest statements of it in any treaty. 
Or take the Five Tribes Removal treaties where it states: "The United States and the Congress promise they shall never enclose these lands within the boundaries of a state without the permission of the Indian people." Then there are the Northwest treaties regarding fishing rights whe~ tbeY say the members ofthese various tribes shall havethengbt~ fish in common with other citizens so long as they don disturb the cultivated shell fish beds of other citizens. . 
I think the strongest item in the 1868 treaty is the pr=if any member ofthe Lakota tribe is injured by a Whit~ aJl the President of the United States will organtze investigation to determine and punish the White man who injured the member of the tribe. 
· · nil
Indian Voice: Why don't you feel the land defi111UO strong in that treaty? 1812 Deloria: Because it was ammended in 1873, 1876, and 1889. 


. n Voice: But isn't it true those so called JJl~:drnents were done completely fraudulently? ,irtlfl ria: Of course; but so were all the ammendments of
I0 

pe treaties of all the other tribes. Almost all the treaties 
,ll th~th land say the same thing, if not even stronger than 
de31,68 treaty.
ibC Il those treaties and amendments were forced on the 
~ us tribes. I can't think ofa single damn one that was delt 
~olegally. Consequently, you raise the whole issue of all 
fll eaties when you raise that particular point in the 1868 
ibC !r And in the minds of Congress they're saying "We 
~ {·just do this to the Sioux. We did it twice as bad to the 
di ~ pewa, and this can get out of hand." 
Chtiake the River Crows. They were supposed to have 
erything north of t~e Missour~ river in Montana. ~hey 
eY ·ed this reservat10n on their maps and authorized 
::iuities for it. Th~re w~s an exec1:1tive order signed by the 
President to set aside this reservat10n for the River Crow. 
But in those days it was difficult to deliver annuities into 
Montana because the Sioux and Cheyenne and Arapaho 
re on the rampage. So the government didn't want to 
:liver all tha_t stuff to the Ri~er Crow re~erv~tion so they 
dumped it with the Mountam Crow which 1s where the 
present Crow reservation is. So the River Crow had to go 
down there to collect their annuities. Then the government 
began to insist the River Crow live with the Mountain Crow 
_ these are really two entirely different groups of people ­
until finally, as Montana became more settled they didn't 
want the River Crow moving back and forth so they just 
abolished the reservation. Here you have an example where 
atreaty(the treaty of 1855)'set up a reservation, the Congress 
confirmed it by legislation, the President confirmed it by 
executive order, but then, through arbitrary administrative 
action, they turned around and just took it away! 
To my mind, consequently, if you are going to do anything in that line, this is the strongest case you could possibly have. .. But your question was about the political feasibility of getting land restoration. I think the most rational thing you can do now is to translate those promises which have been broken into a new commitment for the future of a definite and fair policy towards Indian Lands, that will help build the tribal land stake. 
Indian Voice: Of course, with a lot of the land covered by the 1868 treaty running at $50 to $100 an acre the government could, by granting an indemnity to the Indians, (ED: War indemnity s,uch as for injuries incurred in war or even for war crimes) move a lot of the settlers off, pay them for their individual loss, and return the lands to the Lakota 
tribe. 
Deloria: Sure, it could, but it's not going to. The Menominees can't even get their termination revoked and ~ir right to their little bit of land re-established. Nixon has 
. _mandate to do his thing and he's going to do it in the most Ylctous way possible -not try to establish justice. ofBut t~e point I was trying to make before is the net result lnd~ll this activism is t hat the Whites who have always run of ~an affairs are more solidly entrenched after three years out IM then they ever were. We had Alvin Guiseppi pushed ont 0~the way by 1971. Brad Patterson in the White House ani hstens to two people: Alvin Guiseppi and Edgar Cont, StUalbey were adviso rs to the Democrats. Giuseppi advised lnte ~ Udall for eight years when Udall was Secretary ofthe lid nor. In 1968 wh en Nixon came in Giuseppi switched ab~s. He _was Nixon~'s c hief advisor on Indians and he wrote 
tg P0 hcy statemen t for Nixon in 1969. 
IND/AN VOICE 57 

The phenomena of the Indian Movement behind the scenes is the AIM people have leveled the credibility of anyone who came before them on our side. Their methods are not able to have a profound long term effect on Federal policy, and they destroy any chan~e for other Indians to influence Federal Government policy. Their acts cause power to be returned back to · the Whites who sit on the outside of Indian affairs and keep track of what is going on so they can squeeze in. 
I've tried to bring up a number of issues in different areas and now government people just won't listen to me. Later on the crisis hits and they are embarrased because I had warned them that they should be doing something about this problem. This causes them to be so embarrased they won't deal with me again. 
Indian Voice: But that is why I asked the question I did earlier about your relation to AIM. Take for example the AIM convention that is coming up. If you were involved with AIM and went to that convention and someone like Means -or whoever the people are who initiate these poli­cies you disapprove of -people who have gained their in­fluence by speaking out at such meetings and gaining a following -if someone like that got up and advocated an act of confrontation that you felt was counter-productive to In­dian interests, you could get up, make your speech, explain why their idea was bad and what you thought should be done, and possible influence events in a vital way. 
Deloria: Well ... I don't see what good that would do ... 
Indian Voice: Well, if the AIM membership at least heard your point of view it might be possible for you to profoundly effect the direction of the movement, whereas if all they hear are the confrontations then that is who they will listen to. 
Deloria: But you see I think the present syndrome in AIM is that all the younger guys are aspiring to be more radical than Russell is. For example, coming out of the Bureau confrontation (BIA Wash. November 1972) you hear the name of Carter Camp coming up. I've never met the man, but everyone tells me he is twice as radical as Russell is. I think the reason for this is the climate ofrhetor.ic.that tends to grow with militant movements. 
Indian Voice: But isn't that all the more reason why AIM needs the influence ofa counter-rhetoric? Ifall they ever hear is the rising beat of the war drums without the steadying voice of a councilor, you can't wonder if they accelerate rather than moderate their tactics. I should think you need to hear them and they need to hear you! Aren't you partially responsible indirectly for their direction by denying them your voice? 
Deloria: But I have tried to talk to some of their people who appeared ready to talk, and the problem I found was they don't appear to understand what has gone on during the past fifteen years. I had a six hour discussion with one AIM guy from New York and he said: "Well, you guys had control of all these things for fifteen years and you didn't do anything. Now, as conditions are getting worse, and we are tired of listening to you, we are going to go out and take hold of things." I explained to him that conditions were actually much worse when we started working than they are today. 
When we started to work on Indian affairs there were congressional committees investigating Indian organizations to see if they were Communist fronts! There were discussions in government about repealing IRA (In­dian Relocation Act) completely. They were discussing doing away with tribal government. There were midnight meetings of committees and staff people planning how to 
(Over) 


terminate more -tribes. We· never knew from one minute to the next that a bill might go through congress that day, which we had never heard about, terminating more tribes -or even all of them at once! It may not look spec­tacular in the moment, but for over fifteen years the people who have been working on the legal levels and government levels have eliminated that policy completely. We are now trying to work to restore Menominee and Klamath (the two tribes terminated in early 60's). We stopped a very bad Air Ship Bill. We would have lost ten million acres of land in two years. We stopped the Omnibus Bill which would have mortgaged tribal lands and turned the money -the Indian money -over to the Bureau of Indian Affairs to program. According to that bill, the Bureau was not responsible under the law so in any Bureau failure, the tribe was responsible. Thus, you could have had the entire Navajo Reservation mortgaged, the BIA people would have programmed the money, and then when the money ran out the bankers would have foreclosed on the Navajo, and there would have been no remedy under Federal Law. 
We stopped all that kind of thing cold by lobbying, pres­suring, behind the scenes work. We also laid the groundwork for the programs that are beginning now for improvement of the Indian condition. But the more I tried to explain the things which had been accomplished to this guy the less he wanted to hear about this. I suggested to him AIM call a six months moratorium on activist confrontation while we straightened out congress, because you can oversensitize these people -you can just beat them to a pulp where they can't hear anything -so give us a little time with them. But he replied, "No, we have to keep the movement going." So I asked him: "Well, what have you accomplished? Name one single thing you have accomplished by your methods. Name one Federal Law you have gotten passed in our favor. "But," he said, "we don't have to deal with congress."-that was all he could return! So I said: "That is where you people are detrimental -you don't know the effect you are having on people and on events. Really, you don't know enough about Indian affairs to determine what points of leverage you have to use to accomplish anything concrete. 
In dealing with the White Man you have to understand his frame of reference and deal with him in his terms. By doing that in the past four years through different coalitions of In­dian groups we have gotten four tribes recognition from the · government, and two tribes with a Federal land base they didn't have before. During the same period these guys (AIM) haven't gotten us a hand full of dirt. In other words I think activism should be used sparingly and effectively when you have exhausted all other means to do something. In cases where the people in the congress and the administration know what the issue is, and when they know precisely where they've done wrong and don't want their wrongs revealed to the public. Then you can come and say: "Either you do such and such about this or we are going to hit the papers!" 
This is what we used to do very effectively in the '60's. We 

would work up to a point where we had explained so much of 
the situation that they knew we knew they were in the wrong, 
and we kney why they were doing this. All we had to do then 
was to make it appear we were going to the papers, because 
they didn't want that. The Civil Rights Movement was on 
and they didn't want the Indians rising up at the same time. 
As a result they would cool whatever they were doing. So we 
were able to stop a lot of things behind the scenes that 110 one 
in Indian Country even knew was going on. 
We discovered one day, Be~indo and I, that there was­termination legislation drawn up for twelve tribes -the four Kansas tribes and eight of the small ones in Oki h bureau had written secret reports and sent tha 0 tna. 
~ drafts of the legislation over, and they were sit: reports ha the Senate Interior Committee waiting to be int/n: there at we got on the phone and called the different tribeo 1~·So involved and had them go talk to Carl Albert a:d J1Vtre (Senators from Oklahoma). We also had some of th 010lli tribes send in telegrams to the committee on the ge e ~ ject of termination. By doing this we cooled those b~~~ in several days we got the word: "Don't worry abo t •&QI bills. Some over zealous bureaucrat wrote them up ub thote are not going to introduce them." ' Uh11t 
In 1967, when it came time to hold hearings on the s termination-you see the S~n_eca situati?n had been se~ 1964 and there was a prov1smn that within three years tribe could send representatives to Congress and discuss~ termination provision that had been put into the bill­worked very closely with Robert Bennet and figured ouv:e way for him to go up on the last day of the three year periO: and tell the Congress the tribe had understood they had three years ofgrace, after that point, before they began worlcingoo termination. And of course, the Senate Committee was very upset. But we had . influencial tribes and other people pres,. suring the Senators on that committee not to push the Seneca termination, and as a result the bill just quietly died It is this kind of action I think should be used much mo~ often than the activist type of action. You don't just movein and embarrass the politician. You give him a little running room and let him know what is going to happen to him before he has done anything -at a time where he can still change his position to accommodate you and avoid em­barrassment. I'm sure they have bad motives, but that doesn't concern me. What I am concerned with is the good of the Indian People. 


oW these politicians will remember you forced him 

~nd the scenes and gave him a chance to save his political i,ebt It is the greatest psychological defeat for him actually, d~· he is mor~ concerne~ with h_is public image than bll bing. And smce you did leave him room to change his an~tion and avoid embarrassment, he will be all the more p0s~y to do things your way in the future. ~(you come forward with a _direc! ~onfrontation whi~h 
ves him no chance to save his pohtlcal ego, then he will :rn you when~ver h~ gets the ~han~e. One of the main reasons we are no~ gett~ng our hearm~s m the Senate Foreign Relations Comm!ttee is that Ma?1sfield and McGovern are on that committee and don t want those hearings. McGovern went out to Wounded Knee on the second day of the struggle an~ Russell Means said: "Get that guy out of 1tere -he remmds me of Custer, Crook and Sheridan!" (Three America~ Generals against the _Indians last century). 
Now here is McGovern suffering from a major psychological d~~res~io~ due to having bee~ stomped in the election, and this is his first really good pubbc effort to try to redeem his image as a conciliator, and Russeljust wiped him out. So when it came time to discuss having hearings on In­dian treaties, McGovern and Mansfield both said: "Well, we don't consider Indian treaties in the same light as we do international treaties." Now this is absurd because some of the reservations are two or three times as large as a lot of European countries they sign treaties with, but with McGovern it was no longer a logical but an emotional reac­tion. So you can see how bright I think Means is. 
Indian Voice: What I was suggesting is that the Indian people need to have, when these sensitive situations come up-when McGovern goes to Wounded Knee for instance -is a voice talking to them and for them. The voice of a balanced and reasonable man who understands the gestalt of these problems and can deal with them effec­tively rather than non-productively. 
Deloria: Well I don't know how you can solve that, because I feel the problem of communicating with the rank and file is very complex. AIM and the chairmen have the same fault. In discussing the whole Indian situation they only go so far as identifying problems, and then leave it open for congress to have the wisdom to solve it. 
Congress is really dumber than either group in Indian matters and can't come up with a viable Indian solution. They say "here we have an education problem -what are you going to do about it?" and this leaves the door open for congress to move in with all their social engineers from HEW an~ make any sort of theory they want. The whole trauma which began about May 1967 and lasted for several months was the great discovery that Indians are bi-linguals. Well this had been pointed out to them but no solution was offered so You ~ad. all these "experts'' rushing in with their kookytheones, and where are you? 
Indian Voice: You wrote a letter to the editor of the NY Times on March 22. Did you see Dick Wilson's reply to it? eloria: No I didn't. · 
l~dian Voice: Here is a copy ofhis reply, but what did you say 10 the original letter? W~eloria: I said that part of the issue between AIM and " llson is that Wilson has what the reservation people call a ron squad" which ostensibly is to protect the reservation 
;om AIM but in fact has been used to harass his political op­0;nents. I based this on discussion with Wilson's political an:onents, Virgil Kills Straight, Dave Long, Gerald Clifford or Gerald Winthrop. I have no reason to doubt these guys others I have talked to from Pine Ridge, because the word 
IND/AN VOICE 59 

"goon squad" has become one of the most frequently used terms on the reservation. 
They have had tribal headquarters sandbagged -they had protests about it long before AIM came on the scene at Wounded Knee. No one whose word I would respect on the reservation would give me anything to contradict the in­formation I already had. AIM, after all, did not burn Aaron DeSersa's house, and during the night of the election I know that several shots were fired at One Feathers house. 
I don't see how Wilson can write a letter of denial fike this while at the same time he is asking the Feds to get out so he can lead 800 of his warriors down to kill all the people at Wounded Knee ... I also wonder where he's going to get these 800 people. It isn't AIM who initiated all this trouble either, but rather a reaction by people on the reservation to the "goon squad" which caused them to ask AIM help. 
The point I made in my NY Times letter is that from the in­formation I have these goons are actually being paid by the federal government; but we don't know that, and there has been no clarification either from Wilson or the Feds. In the absense of any clarification we have to assume they are being supported because they are officially deputized or something, but in any case they are being supported by federal funds. 
Indian Voice: Is Dick Wilson one ofyour old friends as he implies in his letter to the Times? 
Deloria: I only met the character once ... But you know it is really difficult for me because, despite all this I don't want to see any tribal government overthrown by an activist protest. Even though the present set up and rules are very bad, there is no use in having a tribal government if this sort of thing happens. 
The thing to do is to change the rules and create better tribal government or whatever, but through change within the tribe and by due process. If we start having violent revolutions on our own reservations, forget it!! But on the other hand, you can't overlook the fact there is wide spread support for the Wounded Knee thing on the reservation from people who are not pro-AIM but who are anti-Wilson. Or they are anti-tribal government as now constituted. When we recognize that, as we must, you can't say that we have to blindly follow the dictates of Wilson or the council just because they are the elected tribal government. 
It is a very tough situation to see ones way through. And it is terrible that it has been allowed to deteriorate to a point where there are no easy or reasonable solutions. And whatever happens it is imperative to have the government reformed to the point where it is more in tune with the people on the reservation. But at Pine Ridge I don't know how you can resolve it except by referendum. 
Indian Voice: On the Dick Cavett Show, Bob Burnett said one of the problems is that Americans think of gov­~rnment as being elected by individual vote. But this is not the traditional Indian way of doing things so Indians do not have a natural confidence in that method. Would you agree with that? 
Deloria: I'd re-phrase it. I don't like the way he said it but I think what he said is fundamentally true, and to a much greater degree than most people realize. 
Any effort ·by the FederarGovernment to change things on the reservation is looked at by great numbers of the people as an intrusion. A lot of the people think if you don't participate in a vote it won't happen. For example, in a lot of the votes used to be taken on the termination issue it would appear a majority of the people wanted to terminate. But 
(Over) 
this just wasn't true. Most of the affirmative votes you would get were from off reservation mixed-bloods who just wanted to cash in on the money. The full-bloods on the reservation simply refused to vote because they felt if they voted it would signify that they recognized the right of the Federal Government to do this which they didn't want to do. I had a hell of a time telling these people the way the Federal Government looks at a vote is as a referendum of the people to decide what they want to do, and if you don't vote it will be interpreted by the government that you approve what they are doing. 
We never could get that across to the Menominees and tpat is precisely why they were terminated. The people boycotted the meeting where they were going to vote for termination! I think that Bob Burnett should have explained it in that context. On the different Sioux reservations they will say oftribal government that this is something alien to us set up by the Federal Government and ifwe don't participate in it then it won't affect us. And you can't convince them that this is their interpretation, but it is not the Federal Government's interpretation. 
Indian Voice: Why do you think Wilson feels he has the right to complain you are against him? I mean, he seems to assume he should be able to expect your support and is com­plaining in your letter that you didn't give it to him. 
Deloria: Well I have taken a stand fairly strongly in favor 01 some of the issues that AIM has raised, including my sup­port of their allegations against his goon squads. I think it is very difficult sometimes to distinguish between support of the issues and support of AIM. I think the system of abuses by tribal government at Pine Ridge was a pattern established long before Wilson or One Feather and the rest ofthe current leaders there ever came into office or into the general picutre -a system which they inherited. I think the situation was virtually unsolvable, but as soon as the confrontation started it became personalized around Dick and Russell, so if you supported one issue or the other you were put into a pro­Means or a pro-Wilson camp. In the past, I have criticized some of Russell's acts, so I guess Dick tried to make me out as Pro-Wilson, whereas I am not either. I relate to the issues, not to personalities. 
Now from the information I have about Wilson, I have no knowledge of corrupt fiscal policies by him. My chief concern is his use ofa special police force which is, I think, an invalid use ofthe tribal chairman's office and the tribal coun­cil. 
Indian Voice: By that you mean the "goon squad?" 
Deloria: Yes. And when you get to that point you create an atmosphere of fear which is very bad anywhere and has nothing to do with Indian tradition. Previously, I had agreed with Wilson about the BIA occupation in Washington, now I come back supporting the position of his detractors, particularly the "goon squad" issue, and I think that is why he complains in his letter. 
Indian Voice: Did you go out to Wounded Knee? 
Deloria: No. During the first weekend Kicking Bird and I called ths St. Paul AIM office to try and get lawyers out there to get the legal issues resolved. We got Kunstler out there the next monday. But since then I've been trying to do research and prepare position papers to support some of the issues coming ?ut of Wourded Knee. I think we could get some congressional committees to move on some ofthese things it we can get some kind of sensible presentation of the issues. 
As far as the inter-Indian problem back there is concerned, I think both sides are stubborn and it is really im­possible as things stand to support either side except on specific points. You need to cool the situaf referendum on the whole subject of tribal gov:on, ha-ve a gradually work out the problems. rnment lllcl 

Indian Voice: I wanted to ask you about the alle . have heard about your attitude towards the BIA O gationa I in Washington last November. Wilson refers to :~~ation letter . . . Is in his 

Deloria: Yes, I was extremely disturbed by all th man down there had three current working files on :t. One of water rights cases that he was going to take up on be~k the tribes. The Indian~ came into his office, totaled it of took the files, and this guy gave up and left the Fedout, Government. era1 
They had destroyed two years work and resea preparing these files. Also at that time we had the law su·~ progress at Klamath to see whether it was legal for a ha~ Ill totally liquidate their assets. The occupation destroyed th to files too and as a result took that case away from us. No:=. we dig into the Klamath situation the Bureau can say all pertinent records were destroyed during the Bureau takeov -whether or not it is actually true/The tragicthingtome~ that by that destruction of records they have taken away fifty to one hundred, maybe even one hundred fifty, possible causes of action that different tribes had against the government. Because if you start to discover corruption now, or double dealing on the part of Federal Officials and you start to prepare a law suit to go in and establish United States liability, the bureaucrats are now in the perfect position to say that any records you want were destroyed in the Bureau takeover and that they don't have them. So at this point in history you can never know whether those records were destroyed by Indians or whether they were des­troyed by bureaucrats to protect themselves relative to their crimes against the tribes. 
There are not many doors into the bureau as it is through which you can apply for records, and now, the minute you apply for records or go to see someone about them, since these bureaucrats know then what to cover up, all they have to do is walk down to their friendly incinerator and dump the very valuable records of a whole tribe into the incinerator. Three hours later if their boss comes down and asks for those files all they have to do is say that those records were lost in the Bureau takeover. So the activists have just cut us offat .the ankles in terms of any reasonable legal solution to the problems resulting from corruption and mis-management in the Bureau of Indian Affairs. 
My whole point is that now any bureaucrat has unlimited power over what we can do to correct their wrongs. All he has to do is say "I have no knowledge of those documents, they were stolen by the Indians." It can be sitting right th~re on his desk and he can say that! As a result I class the st~& or destruction of those records as one of tlie stupidest things Indians have ever done. 
Indian Voice: Wouldn't you say then that in all these matters, what Indians need to do is to get togeth~r and con; suit each other so as to form a productive and umfied fro~t. 
Deloria: Precisely. That was the old tribal way of domg things -to have discussions and make decisions and ~en act. We need to work carefully and systematically t~ ~ these guys -not take random and drastic actions 'Y1th0all knowing what may be involved. More than anythmg, elements in the Indian world need to work together rather than fighting and impeding each other. 
IND/AN VOICE 61 

Many events are dependent on natural local conditions such as tides or harvest. For this reason, we advise you to check any listing omitting a specific date. Also, be sure to buy from Indian craftsmen. Sometimes that genu­ine artifact you adore came from Japan or was made by white hobbyists. 
ea~ ~bl{ oKA_LEE VILLAGE 
1 
nywood, Florida 
111~~UNTAIN SUN DANCE 
•waoc,Colorado ii 1to Mid-N ovember 
rusEUM OF CHEROK_EE INDIAN , erokee, North Carolina 
J,ne to Labor Day 
rowWOWS each Tuesday and Thursday 
~cdu Flambeau, Wisconsin 
J ne 
NTENNIAL CELEBRATION moveonto White Earth Reservation #Me Earth, Minn. 
J1ne 
EMOUNTAIN BEAR DANCE DALL-INDIAN POW WOW owa oc, Colora do 
lid-June 
ATRIBE OF KANSAS & NEBRASKA POW WOW #Me Cloud, Kansas 
Jane 9, 10 
~R DANCE anesville, Ca lif. 
June14-16 NUAL INTERTRIBAL CADDO DANCE jmger, Oklahoma 
une 14-16 
1AGDAY POWWOW 
• Francis, South Dakota 
ne 14-17 
SAGE TRIBAL CEREMONIAL DANCES 
awhuska, Oklahoma 
ne 15-17 
IOWA-APACHE-BLACKFOOT POW WOW ian City, Anadarko, Oklahoma 
.ne l5-17 
· ANNUAL ALL INDIAN POW WOW Vada, Missouri 
ne15-17 
UB CITY POWWOW -inton, Okla homa 
neis 
eiE~~ATION DAY CELEBRATION Pinit, Washington 
•ne 16-17 
MM ER POWWOW 73~~nud Gommunity College
• nion Lake Road n1on Lake, Mich. 
June 16, 17 MEMORIAL CELEBRATION Grass Mountain, Little Elk Park Rosebud, South Dakota 
June 19-21 CEDAR CREEK POW WOW Cedar Creek, Arizona 
June 21-24 OSAGE DANCES Hominy, Oklahoma 

June 21-24 EL RENO EXPOSITION AND POW WOW El Reno, Oklahoma 
June 23, 24 INDIAN AWARENESS DAYS Indian Center, 1301 West 8th Yankton, South Dakota 
Traditional dancing, camping 
June 23, 24 CORN DANCE AND RABBIT HUNT San Juan Day Taos, New Mexico 
June 24 WAR DANCES AND FOOT RACES San Juan Day San Juan, Santa Domingo, New Mexico 
June 27-30 
INDIAN FESTIVAL OF ARTS LaGrande, Oregon 
June 29 -July 1 AHOOHAI DAY Window Rock, Arizona 

June 29 -July 1 UNITED TRIBES POW WOW Bismark, North Dakota 
June 30 
CHICKASAW FESTIVAL Tishomingo, Oklahoma 

June 30 -July 1 ANNUAL KICKAPOO OF KANSAS INDIAN POW WOW Eight miles west of Horton, Kansas 
July 

SOUTHERN UTE SUN DANCE Ignacio, Colorado 
Early July OMAHA CELEBRATION Wolf Point, Montana 

July (1st week) INDIAN CELEBRATION Owyhee, Duck Valley Reservation, Nevada 
Indian games, dancing, and rodeo 
July or August 
NORTHERN UTE SUN DANCE Near Whiterocks, Utah 
Mid-July 
NORTHERN CHEYENNE POW WOW Lame Deer, Montana 
July (2nd and 4th weeks) 
SUN DANCE Ross Fork Creek and Bannock Creek District, Idaho 
War dances, and Indian games 
July (last two weeks) HOPI HOME DANCES Several different villages 
Late July 
PUYE CLIFF CEREMONIAL Santa Clara, New Mexico 
Late July & 1st of August ANNUAL INDIAN DAYS Rocky Boy's Agency, Montana 
July 1-4 FOURTH OF JULY CELEBRATION Old Agency, Sisseton, South Dakota 
July 2-4 FLAGSTAFF POW WOW Flagstaff, Arizona 
Dances, rodeo and fair 
July 2-4 QUAPAW POW WOW Quapaw, Oklahoma 
July 2-5 PAWNEE INDIAN HOMECOMING AND POW WOW Pawnee, Oklahoma 
July 2-4 KIOWA GOURD CLAN Carnegie, Oklahoma 
July 3, 4 INDIAN POW WOW Ft. Thompson,-South Dakota 
July 3, 4 CADDO INDIAN DANCE Binger "Y" Murrow Dance Grounds Binger, Oklahoma 
July 3-5 STRUCK-BY-THE-REE POW WOW Greenwood, South Dakota 
July 3-5 KIOWA GOURD-CLAN POW WOW Carnegie, Oklahoma 
(Over) 

July 3-6 MESCALERO APACHE GAHAN CEREMONIAL Mescalero, New Mexico Mescalero Apache Reservation 
Dances and rodeo 
July 4 
PARADE AND INDIAN DANCES Warm Springs, Oregon 

July 4 SWINOMISH FESTIVAL LaConner, Swinomish Reservation, Washington 
Indian dancing and games, salmon bake 

July 4 INDEPENDENCE DAY CELEBRATION AND DANCES 
Fort Duchesne, Utah July 4 TAHOLAH DAYS 
Taholah, Quinault Reservation, Washington
Indian dancing 
July 4 ANNUAL YAKIMA INDIAN ENCAMPMENT (10 days)
Next to White Swan Long House on Yost Rd., 3 miles south of White Swan, Yakima Reservation, Washington 

, July 4 CEREMONIAL AT NAMBE WATERFALL Nambe, New Mexico 
July 9-11 SAC AND FOX POW WOW Sac _and Fox Jim Thorpe Memorial Park, 5 miles south of Stroud, Oklahoma 
July 13, 14 ANTELOPE COMMUNITY POW WOW Mission, South Dakota July 13_
15 SAC AND FOX POW WOW Stroud, Oklahoma July 13_
15 

CHEYENNE NATION INTER-TRIBAL FAIR El Reno, Oklahoma July 13_
15 

POW WOW AND RODEO White Shield, North Dakota 
4

t~~T~ }~ERICAN INDIAN DAYS Browning, Mont. 
i~~pi~-ci~ SUN DANCE 
Ethete, Wyoming Ju.ty 14-15 WHAA-LAA DAYS Worley, Idaho (Coer d'Alene Tribe) 
Indian games, war dance contest 
Various dances by Nambe and neighboring pueblos July 14-17 
July 4 POW WOW AND RODEO 
Ft. Totten, North Dakota July 4 INDIAN POW WOW 
Arlee, Montana 
July 4 INDIAN CELEBRATION Schurz, Nevada 
July 4 and week following CIRCLE CELEBRATION N~spelem, Colville R~servation, Washington 
Tnbal dances and stick games 
July 4th weekend SUN DANCE Rocky Boy's Agency, Montana 
July 4 weekend FOURTH OF JULY POW WOW 
M.
R d L k 
e a e, inn. July 4 weekend INDIAN FOURTH OF JULY CELEBRATION Parker, Ariz. (Colorado River Tribe) 
July 4-6 RODEO AND POW WOW 
Spring Creek, South Dakota 
July 4-6 PAT BUTCHERS SACRED UNITY FIRE Cattaraugus Reservation near Gowanda, 
New York. Seneca Beach off Route 5. Signs will be posted.
Morning "Way of Life and Prophesies" spiritual meetings, afternoon discussions and evening social dances. Please wear red on July 5. 
July 4-7 INDIAN POW WOW Cannon Ball, North Dakota 

ALL-CHOCTAW INDIAN FAIR Philadelphia, Miss. 
July 15-22 STANDING ROCK CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION Fort Yates, North Dakota 
July 19-22 
OTO POW WOW Red Rock, Oklahoma July 19_

24 CRAFTSMAN'S FAIR Asheville, North Carolina July 20 21 FLANDR,EAU SANTEE SIOUX POW WOW Flandreau, South Dakota J I 
20 22

C~~ANCHE POW WOW Walters, Oklahoma 
July 20-22 POTAWATOMI POW WOW 
Mayetta, Kansas 

July 21-22 MI-GWITCH MAHNOMEN
Ball Club, Minn. 

(thank you for the wild rice) 
July 25 CORN DANCE Cochiti, New Mexico 

July 26-28 POW WOW AND RODEO Little Eagle, North Dakota 
July 27-29 W!NNEBAGO 107th ANNUAL INDIAN 
Winnebago, Nebraska POW war, July 27-29 MILKS CAMP POW WOW St. Charles, South Dakota 
July 27-291 
MID-AMERICAN ALL INDIAN DAYS Wichita, Kansas 
July 27-29 OKLAHOMA CITY POW WOW Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 
July 27-29 (tentative) ALL AMERICAN INDIAN DAYS Sheridan, Wyoming 
July 28-29 PRAIRIE POTAWATOMI POW WOW Mayetta, Kansas 
July 28-29 SHOSHONE SUN DANCE Fort Washakie, Wyoming 
July 28-29 SUDS'N SUN CELEBRATION Colville Reservation Soap Lake, Washington 
July 30, 31, Aug. 1 NEW MEXICO ARTS & CRAFTS FAIR Albuquerque, N. Mex. 
July 30-August 5 4th ANNUAL ECUMENICAL CONFERENCE Stoney Indian Reserve between Banff and Alberta, Canada 
Traditional. Indians only. 
Early August KALISPEL POW WOW DAYS Kalispel Reservation near Usk, WashinglDn 
Indian games and war dancing 
Early August INDIAN POW WOW Harlem, Mont. 
Early August INDIAN POW WOW Ashland, Mont. 
Mid-August 
ANNUAL PNOWhWDOWk t Belcourt, ort a o a 

t~~t~ATIONAL BORDER CROSSING CELEBRATION Mid-AuguSt 
Niagara Falls, N.Y. to Niagara Falls, Ontario 
Day-long Iroquois festivities at Oakes Park . 
Niagara Falls, Ontario, Canada July _
21 22
ETHETE POW WOW 

Ethete, Wyoming July 22-24 FT. TOTTEN DAYS 1973 Ft. Totten, North Dakota 
Indian dancing, parade, races, Arts and crafts, ceremonials, rodeo 
CROW FAIR Crow Agency, Montana 
Mid-August 
ALL INDIAN FAIR_ Arapahoe, Wyoming 
Late August 
~ILLE LACS_DAY POW WOW 
Vineland, Minn. August 2-5 (Tentative) EO 
OGLALA SIOUX SUN DANCE & ROD Pine Ridge, South Dakota 


•·sHONE-BANNOCK FESTIVAL ~O Hall Idaho 
fO~ ng~mes and war dances 1nd1a 
3 

A11fH A~NUAL WHITE SWAN/FT RANDALL POW wow ~ke Andes, South Dakota 
gust 3-5 ~NE BUFFALO POW WOW ~okiO, North Dakota 
AUgust 3-5 JULSA POW WOW Tulsa, Oklahoma 
~~-/EGOS BUL~ DANCE .iemez, New Mexico 
Celebration for those from the former ('eCOS Pueblos who joined Jemez people in 1838. 
August 3-10 
7TH ANNUAL INDIAN WEEK Tulsa, Oklahoma 
August 4 
SUMMER CORN DANCE Santa Domingo, New Mexico 
Annual Fiesta 
August 4-5 • All AMERICAN INDIAN DAYS Sheridan, Wyoming 
Dancing, also Miss Indian America Pageant 
Aug. 10 
SUMMER CORN DANCE Picuris, New Mexico 
August 10-12 KI-HE-KAH-STEH DANCE Skiatook, Oklahoma 
August 11-12 ARAPAHOE POW WOW Arapahoe, Wyoming 
August 11-12 OMAK STAMPEDE Omak, near Colville Reservation, Washington 
August 11-12 MESQUAKIE INDIAN POW WOW Tama, Iowa Ceremonial dances, arts & crafts 
Early August 11-12 · RED BOTTOM CELEBRATION !Assiniboine Encampment) frazer, Mont. 
August 11-12 
~UCKLEBERRY FEAST, HEE HEE LONG HOUSE arm Springs, Oregon _ 
Aug. 12-15 (CANCELLED-New facility under construction) 
:TER-TRIBAL INDIAN CEREMONIAL llup, New Mexico
0
ances, parades games
m 
I I

sand crafts, exhibits 
August 13-18 
:MERICAN INDIAN EXPOSITION "3darko, Oklahoma
6
days of dances, arts & crafts 
August 15 
G_REEN CORN (Assumption Day Feast) Zia, New Mexico 
August 17, 18, 24, 25, 31, September 1 SIX NATIONS ANNUAL IROQUOIS PAGEANT Six Nations·Indian Reserve near Brantford Ontario, Canada Outside forest theatre Friday & Saturday nights at dusk. Direction signs posted on Reserve. 
August 18 (tentative) 
OMAHA POW WOW 
Macy, Nebraska 
August 18-19 
HOPI SNAKE DANCES 
Even years at Sipaulovi, 

Shongopovi, and Hotevilla; 
Odd years at Mishongnovi 
and Welpi 
August 18-19 
MUD SPRINGS CAMP 
Craigmont, Idaho 

Indian games and feasting 
(Nez Perce Tribe) 
August 18-19 

RED LAKE ANNUAL FAIR 
Red Lake, Minn. 
August 18-19 

HAVASUPAI TRIBAL PEACH FESTIVAL Supai, Arizona 
August 23-27 
BAREFOOT POW WOW Canton, Oklahoma 
August 23-27 
PONCA POW WOW 
Ponca City, Oklahoma 
August 24-26 

ROSEBUD SIOUX FAIR, POW WOW AND RODEO Rosebud, South Dakota 
August 24-26 

CROW CREEK FAIR, POW WOW AND RODEO Ft. Thompson, South Dakota 
August 25-26 

HUALAPAI TRIBAL POW WOW Peach Springs, Arizona 
August 25-26 
RODEO AND POW WOW Wakpala, North Dakota 
August 25-26 
PI-NEE-WAUS DAYS Lapwai, Idaho 

War dances, Indian games, exhibits 
(Nez Perce Tribe) 
August 25-2b 

"BIGGEST LITTLE FAIR IN ALASKA" Ninilchik, Alaska 
August 31-Sept. 1 

CHEYENNE-ARAPAHO POW WOW Colony, Oklahoma 
August 31-Sept. 1 

COMANCHE GOURD DANCE 
Reid Farm, Medicine Park 
Lawton, Oklahoma 
September 
ACORN FESTIVAL 

Tuolumne, Tuolumne Rancheria, Ca. 
September 
HARVEST DANCES 
San Juan, New Mexico 
IND/AN VOICE 63 . 
Early September (one week) NAVAJO TRIBAL FAIR Window Rock, Arizona 
Dances, rodeo, exhibits, arts and crafts, sales 
About Labor Day 
WILD RICE HARVEST Nett Lake and Nett Lake Village, Minnesota 
About Labor Day 
COMANCHE GOURD DANCE 
Lawton, Oklahoma 
labor Day 
OTTAWA POW WOW 
Beaver Springs, Oklahoma 
labor Day 
LABOR DAY CELEBRATION 
Ethete, Wyoming 
labor Day 
CHEYENN~ARAPAHO POW WOW 
Colony, Oklahoma 
labor Day 
LABOR DAY CELEBRATION 
Arapahoe, Wyoming 
Labor Day weekend 
SPOKANE INDIAN POW WOW Wellpinit, Spokane Reservation, Washington 
September 1 
CHEROKEE NATIONAL HOLIDAY 
Tahlequah, Oklahoma 
September 1-2 
LABOR DAY RODEO AND INDIAN DANCING 
Hee Hee Long House 
Warm Springs, Oregon 
September 1-2 
CADDO DANCE 
Binger, Oklahoma 
September 1-3 
LABOR DAY POW WOW AND RODEO 
Soldier Creek, South Dakota 
September 1-3 
CHEYENNE RIVER FAIR AND RODEO 
Eagle Butte, South Dakota 
September 3 
FALL FAIR & POW-WOW 
Ft Totten, North Dakota 
September 5-9 
NAVAJO NATION FAIR 
Window Rock, Arizona 
September 8-9 
PINENUT FESTIVAL 
Schurz, Nevada 
September 8 
SEMINOLE NATION DAY 
Seminole, Oklahoma 
September 11-13 
SOUTHERN UTE TRIBAL FAIR 
Ignacio, Colo. 
Dances, exhibits, and rodeo 
September 15-18 
PENDLETON ROUNDUP 
Umatilla Reservation 
Pendleton, Oregon 
~ 
WOUNDED KNEE NEGOTIATIONS .. · 
(continued from page 46) 
Oglala Sioux, including a number ofthe headmen and ch~efs and their interpreters were waiting at the boundary line. They had a proximate draft ofthe letter I carried. They asked to discuss certain questions they had about the letter -as well as certain doubts about its meaning and what they should do. Kent Frizzell had not been advised of the change in plans, and so we watched his helicopter fly overhead toward Scenic. The Sioux chiefs did not want to break the seal on the letter until they could carry it into Wounded Knee. Therefore, I informed them of my extra "s~curity copies" and gave them to the elderly men to read and d1sc~ss. They had several questions, which I answered, and which answers seemed to satisfy them that they should proceed with the agreement and end the armed confrontation at Wounded Knee. Primarily, I distinguished between the limitations in content and promise of the White House letter -and the matters which they could raise in the context of the scheduled and future White House-level meetings. (I also showed them the copy of the private note to Kent Frizzell, which essentially clarified the federal position that the date deadlines in the White House letter should not be construed as ultimatums or threats. From the private note, the chiefs determined that they had an extra week to work if they wanted to take it but indicated that they were then satisfied with the generai time schedule already set forth and in­formed me that they would act to conclude a settlement at Wounded Knee as quickly as possible.) 
When Frizzell arrived back at the border from Scenic, Fools Crow and the other chiefs were ready to receive the letter. To illustrate the wrongness of the present situations on the Sioux lands, they asked that I hand them the sealed letter·across a barbed-wire fence which kept away other In­dians and even the "official White House courier" -as Kent Frizzell called me. I made a brief statement to Fools Crow relating to the meaning of Wounded Knee and caution!ng him about the representations of the Government, declarmg my belief that Indian people must look to ourselves, our own labors, our own strengths, and our own spirits, not White House letters nor White Man's promises, to recreate a good Indian life upon Indian lands restored to our own control, and to save or to serve Indian people. (I expressed dis­pleasure about a number of things, including the immediate plans to take the chiefs on pleasure rides in the government helicopter. Indian persons from Wounded Knee who had condemned the government's taking advantage of the headmen and chiefs liked my statement to the chiefs -but told me that it had not been translated at all to convey what I had said to them.) There were no television cameras at the site but as we finished transferring the White House letter, a car~era crew arrived and requested a brief "reinactment" for their newscasts. There was no repetition of statements, although some additional ones; otherwise we briefly com­plied with the request. . 
Late that night (May 5), Frizzell informed me that Roub1­deaux and Hellstern had finalized a draft agree~~nt an~ that it had been signed, although it might have add1t10nal s1_gna­tures in Wounded Knee the following day. That evening I reported to the Wounded Knee Legal Offense/ J?efense Com­mittee my understanding of what was happening and what would take place over the next several days. Again it seemed obvious that various members ofthe legal group were greatly disappointed that a settlement was neari?g. I told them: "I've never hidden the fact that my central interest, apart from 
securing general and specific Indian objectives 
. d h 1 . h" 
oriented towar e ping ac ieve a peaceful settle:rnen The funeral of Buddy LaMont proceeded as scheduJt. Sunday, but with persons being allowed into Wound deel having been limited to a list of relatives and closer: his Oglala Sioux Nation as provided by his :rnotheren 1 
On Sunday t~e 6th, I walked in~o the legal offices ~nd midst of a meetmg. The conversat10ns were directed t tho the question of whether it was already too late to p~Wlrd acceptance of the settlement which had already e-= reached. Almost immediately, the subject of my presen legal defense meetings was brought up, with one of ~ members declaring that I should be asked to leave and not permitted to attend the "_Co?.1-mit~ee" me~tings. They were, in the absence o~ any obJectlons, m u~amm?us agreement (Later one of their members called to explain" and express apology, informing me that they "are a collective and operate as one person" --:-advis~ng '!le that since I did not regularly stay and work in Rapid City, that some just did not know me and so I just did not fit it.) 
Just before catching a plane back to Washington, D.C., shortly after Monday noon, I was cal~ed over to the legal of. fices to talk to one of the central Indian figures in die 
Wounded Knee occupation. I had already been advised by federal negotiators that they believed the evacuation would take place much more rapidly than scheduled under the ~ hour delay. ("It looks like we're going to get an empty baa. There's been a heavy infiltration out and it looks like m weapons are being taken out. But that's what we've more or less expected all along. We think Dennis Banks is leaviq tonight, and Carter seems ready to come out.") The Indiq. leader criticized me sharply tor delivering the letter to the chiefs, and counseling them to settle. He blamed me for the agreement, alledging that there wouldn't have been a set• tlement if I hadn't become involved again: "You know thON old people trust you!!" 
As I left, Mark Lane was recording a final message from the Indian leader to the people in Wounded Knee ­desparate effort to stop the settlement. It would be taken into Wounded Knee the next day. Fortunately, it would be taken into an empty village. 
-HANK ADAMS 
( Assiniboin-Dakota) 
Next Edition (SEPT.) 
¦ 
RESEARCH NEEDS IN ~ HIGHER EDUCATION . 

¦ 
WHAT PRICE GLORY, AMERICA? 


¦ POETRY 
plus more... 
A Bag of Bones 
By Marcelle Masson. Fas­cinating stories and legends of the Wintu Indians of northern California, as told absorbingly by an "old one", Grant Towendolly. 
C/01h 5.50; paper 2.50 
2. Buffalo Heart By Sun Bear. Exciting stor­ies of Indian culture, reli­gion, history and heroes from the standpoint of an Indian who knows much about the old ways. C/01h 6.00; paper 3.00 
3. Great Upon the Mountain -Crazy Horse of America By Vinson Brown, illus­1ra1ed by Adelberl Zephier ( Yank1on Sioux). A study in depth of the Indian un­derstanding of life, earth and spirit as seen through the life and feelings of a famous Indian holy man and warrior. With two color plates and many d rawings. C/01h 4.95; paper I .95 
4. Indian Talk-Hand Signals of the orth American Indians By Iron Eyes Cody. Illus­trated with photographs by the author and his Seneca Indian wife; 80 pages; over 150 illustrations of the sign language. An easily-under­stood guide to a fascinating language used by the Plains Tribes for centuries. For all ages. Cloth 4.95; paper 1.95 
5. Lord of the Dawn, Quetzal­coatl By Tony Shearer. The story of ancient Mexico and her great prophet-King, Quetzal­coatl, the Plumed Serpent. in poetic prose. 7 color plates and numerous draw­ings. 
Cloth {).95; /JU/!er 3.95 
6. Native Americans of Cali­fornia and Nevada 
By Dr. Jack D. Forbes. 
Study of Indian culture in this area from prehistoric times to the present plus a fascinating history of Indian­white relations. 210 pages, 18 photographic plates, 6 maps, and a history chart. A graphic and realistic ac­count, frankly pointing out crimes against the Indians. 
Cloth 6.95; paper 3.95 

Pomo Indians of California and Thier Neighbors 
By Vinson Brown; illustrated by Douglas Andrews. 64 
pages, plus a full color map that shows the old trails and villages and wth pa intings of Indian life; 70 illustra­tions in book, including 12 photographs. All these finely illuminate a simply and in­terestingly-told text. 
Cloth 5.50; paper 2.50 

8. Pomo Basketmaking By Elsie Allen. The life and art of this devoted Pomo grandmother. Mrs. Allen gives complete step-by-step directions for recreating beautiful and useful baskets, from gathering and prepar­ing roots and feathers to actual weaving and finishing 
of the baskets. Fully illus­trated . 
C/01h 5.00; paper 2.00 

9. Songs of the Yokuts and Paiutes 
B_1· A I/red Piet ro/orte. Ind i­an folk singing, ada pted for grade school use by an in­structor at the College of the Sequoias. Of interest to anyone interested in Cali­fornia and Nevada Indians. Many pages of actual songs are accurately transcribed in, the hook. IO full-page photographs and 6drawings. 
Cloth 4.50; paper I .50 

IO. Tales of the Sea Foam Br Lisene G. Bro 11·n. T rue adventures o f an 11-yea r­
old white girl with an Indian group of the northwestern California coast. A wise and wonderful old Indian wo­man lends strong interest to the story. Aids relations and understa nding between white and Indian children. 5 photos, 12 drawings. 
C/01h 4.75; paper 1.75 

11. Tapestries in Sand-The Spirit of Indian Sandpaint­ing By David Villasenor, a part Otomi Indian, who has learned sandpainting from the Navajo medicine men . He writes with deep beauty and feeling of this ancient art and its inner meanings. Many fascinating stories of Indian religion and culture are told. I 12 pages, 16 pages of fine color plates. C/01h 6.25; paper 3.25 
Warriors of the Rainbow 
By William Willoya (Eski­mo) and Vinson Brov.-n. 
Strange and prophetic vi­sions of the Indian Peoples. Five magnificent full-color reproductions of paintings done by Indian artists. 20 line drawings and 104 pages. 
C/01h 5.50; paper 2.50 
Good Medicine Series 13A Life in Harmony with Na­ture 32 pages. Paper 1.50 
138 Companion Volume 32 pages. Paper 1.50 I 3C In Glacier Ntl. Park 32 pages. Paper 1.50 13D TradiHonal Dress 50 pages. Paper 2.50 13 E Tipi Life 
32 pages. Paper 1.50 l3F Good Medicine Thoughts 32 pages. Paper 1.50 
13G Legends 64 pages. Paper 2.50 13H Spirit at Hidden Valley I 20 pages. Paper 3.00 
14. Strange Journey Br Louis Lone Dog ( Mo­ha11·k-Delairnre). We were intrigued and delighted by the haunting loveliness and striking spirituality of the face of this Indian woman, hut even more by the extra­ordinary adventures of the spirit of which she writes. Illustrated with 2 color plates and several drawings by Tso Yazzie. Paper 1.50 
Charles Eastman Books I SA Indian Boyhood Paper 3.50 
15 B Old Indian Days 
Paper 3.50 
I SC The Soul of the Indian 
Paper 3.50 
16. Gospel of the Redman 
By Ernes/ Thompson Sewn. 
Depth and beauty of reli­gion. An account of the Indian way of life. 108 pa­ges. 
Paper 1.95 
17. Secret of No Face, an Ireok­wa Epic By Chief Evere11 Parker & O/edoska. An authentic Seneca ta le never recorded before. Lavish color illus­trations & sketches by Indi­an artists. Glossary of Sene­ca words. 174 pages. Cloth 6.95; paper 3.95 

• ORDER B'r Nl'MBER ONLY. I (P250C550) 2 (P300C600) 3 (P250C550) 4 (Pl95C495) 5 (P395C695) 6 (P395C695) 7 (P250C550) 8 (P200C500) 9 (PI50C450) IO (PI75C475) 
11 (P325C625) 12 (P250C550) 13A (P IS0) 138 (PIS0) 13C (P IS0) 13D (P250) 13E (PIS0) 13F (PIS0) 13G (P250) 13H(P300) 14 (PIS0) ISA (P350) 158 (P350) ISC (P350) 16 (PI95) 17 (P395C695) 
I would like __ additional copies of No. 
NAME 
0 I am enclosing full remittance, send my book(s) prepaid . 
O f.Bill me. You may add 50Q: hand­ling for I to 3 books + IOQ: each for four or more books. 
Mail to: Indian Books, Native American Publishing Company, 
P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, Cali­fornia, 95051. 

ADDRESS CITY _____________ STATE ___ ZIP CODE _____ 
Postage prepaid only when cash, check or mone) order accompanies order. 
¦
ISi 


un 
e an 
I¦ 


For years, white people have been So we thought there was only telling one crazy story about Indians one way to get the true facts about after another. Indians out in the open. Start a pub­
So it's not surprising when they lication devoted to contemporary In­accuse us of being everything from dians on the national level. "ignorant savages" to "drunken But somehow we couldn't quite fools." 
lower ourselves to name calling. 
We understand. That would be too easy. 
After all, Indian has always been Instead, we decided to try some­a pretty strange name. And just hear­thing harder. Educate white people ing it out of the blue, you'd probably to the Indian view of America. Let never figure out the truth. them find out what today's Indian 
That Columbus wasn't in India 
is really like. was his fault, not ours. And how he got there. And this was only the beginning of If that doesn't get us a little un­white misunderstanding. derstanding for once, nothing will 
indian \loicc 









