

~ editorials ~~~~,-ft) 
In Gordon, Nebraska earlier this year, some of the good old ho Legion Hall decided to have some fun. They went out and y: at Yellow Thunder, a 51-year old Sioux Indian, to the hall, to provide the fu ro 
. . n. 
They brought him to the Legion Hall, took off his pants, and 
for the benefit of the red-blooded all-Americans gathered ther 11Jac1e 
witnesses, Yellow Thunder succeeded in grabbing his pants and ~n . 
a few minutes, and managed to get away. 
This was not enough for the sadists, however. A week later, th · 
night, in fact, they once again brought him to the Legion Hall. Th; 
was that this time it took five to bring him there. 0 
When they got him there, they once again made him dance, and 
dance well enough for them, they beat him. The broke his ribs, kic-:: 
finally crushed his skull. Then they took him to a used car lot, and left 
He was found dead a week later. 
In Willow Creek, California, on the Hoopa Indian reservation, Michael to the_ aid of his brot~er, who ~as being beaten with a pool cue by Richard a white bartender, m the Circle A Bar. Marmon then jumped behiad grabbed a pistol, shot Michael dead, then yelled to the other Indian bar, "I got one of you black sons-of-bitches; if any more of you want same, come on and get me." No one did. 
Marmon was charged with nothing. The kangaroo court Grand Jury of all whites, refused to indict him, despite the testimony of three · the murder was unprovoked. 
The five white men who bashed in Raymond Yellow Thunder' charged with manslaughter and false imprisonment. The grand jury Nebraska was also lily-white and forgiving. 
This type of abuse has been going on for years around and on Indian ,~...llllt l But in these two cases something else happened. It didn't end t people protested the killings, and the lack of justice for Indian American Indian Movement has made the Yellow Thunder case 
1 national importance, as it should be; this type of racial homicidal d" against Indians must stop. United Native Americans and Indians from California converged on Sacramento in March also to protest the lack in the death of Michael Ferris. This young man college student at the University of California at his life taken away by an Indian-hating white man. Raymond Yellow Thunder, an elderly man, was desecrated, for the sadistic pleasure of five all-American Legionnaires. not expect that Indians would do anything about it. For years Indians discriminated against in the little towns around Pine Ridge and Rosebud tions, towns like Gordon (Pop. 2000). And for years the whites in the most anti-Indian people in the nation, have gotten away with it many Indian people, these towns are the only places near enough for them to shop. The whites have held all the cards, and when an Indian has dared to he has been put in his place fas_t; the methods range from night riden strings to have a man fired from his job, or his children made fun of at school. Indian people have felt, in many cases, that they couldn't do an these conditions, because the whites did have all the power. But they are 
now that they can do something about these conditions if they band t demand some justice from the racist American judicial system. And th· goin'g to be the same, ever again. 
There was another death in the Indian world The symbol of the Stanford University football team breathed his last breath. 
It was a quiet death, and one that was long overdue. The not just a good luck charm, a puppet to be carried along with the i His classification is human being, not bulldog, tiger, lion, wildcat, "brave". He is not an animal trained to dance to the commanding yeUI tators at an athletic event. 
Many non-Indians can see no harm in the use of the Indian as a 
But Indian people see harm in it, and resent its usage. They kno symbol is an extension of the philosophy so prevalent in the country n:u.. and still too widely held today -the philosophy which said that ~he 1 ... 
subhuman, a red devil, an animal to be domesticated on reservauons, process, deprived of his land and human rights. And this philosophy Christians; non-Christians really had a racist image of the Indian. 
We say it is time for this false image to be erased. 

INDIAN VOICE 1 

~~ 
~ 
stories this month re­featureeater involvement of the _gr magazine with the 
Voice and desires of the 
hopes, . 1 .
d internat10na native 
1 
:munity. Carole Wright . ~ 0 us some background on teal from Indian-owned
ter s id Lake. . 
Chavers and Mane-Helene have sum~arized ~he sit-Indians m Brazil, who
f
0 . d 
d nger of being extermmate . 
Ill a . . . t 
. •Helene 1s orgamzm~ a mee ­n that situation, and 1f you are ted, contact her through the 
·ne. . n people have wntten about Joseph (Inmuttooyahlatlat), i have heard the Indian side th tory. Turn to page 24 and 
ChiefJoseph's own words. ral Indian communities a­the nation have become irate 

he education forced on their ren by the whiteman, and in pat few years they have started do omething about it -namely, m over their schools. On page · a list of the schools which be controlled by Indians by and on page 14 a short feature tells what one of these I i doing to make education 
· n-oriented. 
any of the things wrong with · n education today are sum­. d in the article on the protest 

fall at Chilocco Indian School the material is from the Nat~ I Indian Youth Council. Religion has always played a t role in Indian life and with 
n people. A des~ription of ote ceremony appears on page and a description of the convers­.of ome whites to a belief in aan religion is chronicled on 
40. 

~rg~ Catlin spent years paint­ndians, travelling across the When only Indians lived there 
Years ago). The centerfold ome exarp.ples ofhis work. 

Indian 
are not taking to the but there are· more JU t' are quietly demand­rn Me from the American Pcct~d ad Bear, one of the most and well-known Indian 
"The wealth which we affect in Europe, such as gold, jewels, pearls and other riches, they hold of no value at all . .. and they are so liberal in giving that it is the exception when they deny you anything." 
-AMERIGO VESPUCCI 

VOLUME2 MARCH/APRIL NUMBER2 
EDITORIAL ....................................................................................... FRONT 
MAIL CALL.................................................................................................  2  
FEATURES  
PYRAMID LAKE: CREATION -1972  
-Carole Wright ..............................................................................  4  
BRAZIL'S INDIANS: The American West Revisited  
Dean Chavers and Marie-Helene Laraque ........................................  8  
NO MORE FOREVER  
-ChiefJoseph's Own Story .............................................................  24  
THE CONTEMPORARY SCENE  
ALASKAN ROLLS TO BE PREPARED...............................................  2  
INDIANS MARCH FOR JUSTICE  
__:_ Mad Bear .....................................................................................  IO  
ROCKY BOY'S SCHOOL INCORPORATES  
CREEINDIANCULTURE ............................................................  14  
DRINKING: A SERIOUS PROBLEM IN ALASKA  
-Andrew J. Golia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15  
CHILOCCO SCHOOL PROTESTS  
-National Indian Youth Council .....................................................  19  
PEYOTE CEREMONY  
-Dan Murray ........ . . . ...... .. .. .. . . . . . ... . ..... . . . ... ... . .. .. ... . ... . . ... .... ... . . . ........  32  
CONVERTS TO INDIAN RELIGION ...................................................  40  
THEARTS  
POETRY CONTEST WINNERS ...........................................................  3  
POETRY ................................................................................................  21  
NATIVE AMERICAN ART  

-The Work ofGeorge Catlin .............................................. Centerfold A LONE OAK IN KANSAS -Robert J. Conley ..... ........ ... . ........... . . ... . .. .. .. .. .. ... . .. .. ..... .. .. ... . . ... ... .. 30 
INDIAN WISDOM 
A PRAYER TO REMEMBER ................................................. Back Cover halfway between then and now .......................................... Inside Back Cover 
WIGWAM EVENINGS1..................... ....................................................-. 43 
OTHER FEATURES 
THE NEW EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS -From Rough Rock News .............................................................. 13 A VISITTOTHEMATTAPONI -John D. Gillespie .......................................................................... 18 NEWS FEATURES FROM AMERICAN INDIAN PRESS ASSOCIATION .............................................................................. 42 
leaders. todav. describes one march ture. Another repeat author is John for justice in Sacramento, California. Gillespie, who gives us this month Another way of coping with the a description of his visit to the whiteman's world is described by Mattaponi Indians ofVirginia. Andrew Golia, in his description of Wigwam Evenings tales by the alcoholism in Alaska. late Dr. Eastman (Sioux), news 
Robert J. Conley has written poe­.from the American Indian Press try for us before; this month we Association, and beautiful prayers feature some of his prose. More of on both sides of the back cover, his work will be coming in the fu-complete this month's issue. 
PYRAMID LAKE AND SURROUNDING AREA 

INDIAN VOICE 5 
Ou not leave one thing 

Can Y I
d can you not eave one e ' e can you not honor
1
• on ' -v:·d . . h
rornise?" James I ovzc ., Tribal Chairman, Pyramid Paiutes; Sacramento, 1969 
ther band of Northern °ndians was as widely known
1 
. · · 

the Kuyuidokado, or cm-m eaters, territory encompassed all of ·d Lake, Nevada, as well as iDJICmucca or Mud Lake, now dry, 
the lower Truckee Rive~. 
The Kuyuidokado still live in · original homeland, altho~gh confined to a small reservat10n it on the shores of Pyramid Lake. 

There were 21 bands within the 
Tribe; bands were identified by 
their main source of food or their 
place of residence. The Wadatoka, 
or seed-eaters, · lived near Burns, 
Oregon. The Kamodokado, or jack­
rabbit eaters, lived near present­
day Gerlach, Nevada, while the red 
butte dwellers, or Atsakudowa tuvi­
warai, lived near McDermitt, 
Nevada. And there were many more. Poito (Old Winnemucca), medicine man for the Kuyui band, was con­sidered by a majority of the bands as the overall chief of the Tribe in the l 850's. Each band had its "home chief', or "captain", and the Kuyui band was led by Numaga, ·or Young Winnemucca, the son of 
Old Winnemucca. He was followed 
in time ' by Natchez, Captain Joe, 
and Numana (Captain Dave). 
The latest incident had been the imprisonment of two Paiute women at Williams Station on the Carson River. Neither of the women had done any wrong; they were being 
held merely four white The brother went to the release, and thrown out. nine others, and burned ground. 
for the pleasure of the men at the station. of one of the women station to ask for their he was beaten and He later returned with killed the white men the station to the 

All the band chiefs and captains gathered at Pyramid Lake during the fishing and gathering season of 1860 were in favor of war -except the Kuyui chief, Numaga. He fasted during· the days of the council meet­ings and spoke against the war. He expressed the fear that to go to war 



PYRAMID LAKE: 
creation 
have been living in this same 
for thousands of years, but 
their ragtag militia failed to 


!he 8,000-10,000-member Paiute was scattered throughout 
hem Nevada, eastern California, eastern half of Oregon and rn Idaho at the. time white men 
~n the scene. Neighboring Included the Shoshone to east, the Nez Perce Cayuse
·1 ' ' 
mati la to the north and the 

KI ' 
amath, Modoc Achimawa

w ' ' 
asho, and Miwok to the 

During the ien years following John Fremont's visit to Pyramid Lake in 1843, Indian and white contacts in the area were friendly and cooperative. This relationship began to deteriorate with the indis­criminate killing of Indian people along the route from the east to the gold and silver mines in Virginia City, during the 1850's. 
In early May of 1860, most of the Paiute bands gathered at Pyra­mid Lake to consider war with the whites who were invading their lands and killing their people. Like most other Indian tribes, the whiteman's war was a foreign concept to them, even to defend their homeland, and the Paiutes 
were  not  unified  on  going  to  war.  
Also  attending  the  council  were  
bands  from  the  Bannock  and  

Shoshone Tribes, who were m favor ofwar. 
1972 
would only lead to more whites com­ing to kill his people. But after hearing of the_burning of Williams Station, he began to prepare him­selfand his people for war. 
News of the "massacre" at Williams Station meanwhile touched off uncontrolled anger and hatred am<;mg the whites, and resulted in the deaths of several Indian people living and working in Virginia City. Some of those killed belonged to the Washo Tribe. 
Soon an undisciplined, ignorant, and over-confident volunteer army 
was  organized,  and  they  began  
their  march  to  Pyramid  Lake  un­ 
aware of  the  2,000-man  Indian  

force waiting for them. was easily led into an Indian riders, who kept shot range. Within a minutes, the "army" 
(Over) 
The "army" ambush by out of gun­
matter of was nearly 




PYRAMID LAKE 

(Continued) 

wiped out by the overwhelming number of Indian warriors, who used bows and arrows and a few · rifles. There is no exact count of 
the casualties, but about 120 white­
men died that day-May 12, 1860. 

Two weeks later another volun­
teer army headed by an experienced 
"Indian fighter", Colonel John 
Hays, began another march to 
Pyramid Lake. This "army" was 
met by. about 400 Indian warriors, · 
who held off the army while their 
women · and children escaped to the 
north. 

Since the Indians escaped and no 
further contact with them was 
made, the "army" disba11ded a week 
later. Soon afterward, both sides 
began to seek peace. As early as 
1859, requests had been made to 
the Commissioner of Indian Affairs 
for a reservation for the Paiutes 
to be created at Pyramid Lake. It 
was only . after a war that resulted 
in more whites killed than in any 
other war in the West that the 
requests were taken seriously. 
Negotiations for a peace treaty be­
gan in the late 1860's and in 1872 
were finalized. On March 23, 1874, 
President Ulysses S. Grant finally 
issued an Executive Order establish­
ing the Pyramid Lake Paiute Indian 
Reservation. 

An agency was built at the old 
gathering place of the Paiutes, 
which later became known as 
Nixon. The agent remained silent 
when whites settled on rich farm 
lands in the southern portion of the 
reservation. 

The Nomo (people) were blessed 
with a bountiful supply of cut­
throat trout, however, and the 
unique prehistoric cui-ui in their 
lake. Using spears, nets, traps, 
and clubs, the people split and 
dried the fish by the thousands, 
for use either as food, or in trad­
ing. But· by the turn of the century, 
whites were commercially taking 
the trout from Pyramid Lake by the 
tons, ·for sale in the surrounding 
towns, and for shipment through­
out the United States. 

Shortly after the turn of the 
century, completely disregarding 
the Indians' rights to their lake and 
the excellent fishery there, Nevada 
Senator Francis G. Newlands re­
ceived approval and funds from 
Congress to build the first agricul­
tural reclamation ro · ect in the 
nation. The water for the reclama­
tion project was to come from the 
waters that normally flowed into 
Pyramid Lake -the Truckee River. 

The Project came to be called the Newlands Reclamation Pro­ject after its builder. The original plan was to turn 287,000 acres of desert land into a farmers' paradise. Derby Dam was built on the Truckee River to divert water away from their natural flow to Pyramid Lake and into the Lahontan Valley, to be pooled with waters from the Carson River already being used for irrigation. 
The construction of Derby Dam caused the death of Pyramid's na­tive trout. By 1935 they were gone­unable to get past the dam to spawn in the Truckee. It also resulted in an 80-foot drop in the lake's water level, and this is presently threat­ening the extinction ofthe cui-ui. 
Only 55,000 acres of the original project were found to be suitable for cultivation; the 
\ 

YOULL BE ABLf TO SEE YOUR WITH THIS MAG~I FY I NG 
four-fifths could the original plan noJ be fa 
0 

annually of Tru~kee 6,~ were to be diverted River and this was to co t· to the 
Th n 10ue u · 
e ex~ess waters have becnti}for various other . ll providing water f JroJects, 
belonging to a r a due 
h sportsrna 
; os~. members include n b e . ig . names in govenun o uTs1hness 1? northern Nevada e 
~n m 1971 the Pai lawsmts against the J u~ 
· USti,.. 
I

ntenor Departments fJr ­t? protect Indian water ri six decades, they said, th:11 ~overnment, supposedly th ian of their interests ke 
. t d . ' no
ass1s e m the theft of I d" er for agricultural lands 0~ Ian value. The excessive di·v .ma:rania1
h ers1on 
t_ e years destroyed a natural life_ refuge at Winnemucca which was once a vital _t~~ _ Pacific Flyway, and pan 
. a 64,000-acre duck blind wi 

irrigation
and excessive 

. ' unent of the Intenor. ' s '(]le pe:~ada has be:n to work 1nt,enefit of white interests ­the rtsmen and resort op­
spo ' · 1,
rs, whose membership 1st .-; the "Who's Who" of lik Nevada. Former . Paiute 
rn . man James Vidovich c~a1r Washington that the
1n 
. r Department was too b.usy 
~ the theft to have time
1ng

t)le victims." ,
in the early 1960 s, the oe Project was proposed b.y Bureau of Reclamation. This tion project would ~ave ~ the already-low flow mto 'd Lake by another 40,000 eet and would have supple­ted 'the water in the alre~dy­upplied Newlands ProJect, 
yhalfswamp. . . By this time the Tnbe had hired 
own attorney, because the In­. r Department Solicitor G:neral's 
their 0nly recourse m the ~ent, wouldn't, or couldn't, . them. The Tribe went on re­as opposing the Washoe Pro­which would have built dams 

the Little Truckee River and r Creek, tributaries to the eeand Carson Rivers. 
In 1964 came the first of Inter-Secretary Stuart Udall's 
'ses to the Tribe trying to gain · support for the Washoe Pro­Like the Newlands Project be­it, the Washoe Project was of ·ous value for agriculture, but was pushed by powerful white ts, who would gain at the ~ of the taxpayers -using c dollars to build dams and 
lldamation projects which would scarce Western water into tural projects which would . money for agricultural corp­ons. Udall, who has a reputa­. as a liberal and a conser­onist, supposedly adopted the 111:ommendations of his Task Force -1 more orderly and efficient use .the Truckee and Carson River ~ and more water for d Lake before another dam c?nstructed. Udall promised
1
nbe that they would have built. Water before the dam was 
In a tel
Octobe egram to the Tribe dated
9

15,00or , 1964, Udall guaranteed ~ d acre-feet annual inflow for Lake. In addition, he 
promised to regulate the diversion of water to the Newlands Project, which implied an additional 100,000 acre-feet would go to the Lake. With this in writing, the Tribe gave Udall its support for the Washoe Project. 
By 1966, the Tribe realized that Udall's promises were not going to be kept. Hearing rumors that Stampede Dam on the Little Truck­ee River was about to be constructed, the Tribe asked the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) Office in Phoenix to confirm or deny the rumor. George Hedden, the BIA official, refused to comment on the matter. Once again, the tribe began to suspect, they were getting the run-around. Another dam, draining away their precious water, was going to be constructed without their consent, and indeed, without their knowledge! 
For the first six months of 1966, the Tribe kept objecting to the con­struction of dams for the Washoe Project until the promised water for Pyramid lake had become a re­ality. And Udall kept sending his promises in an effort to appease them. 
Then, in August of 1966, Udall announced that he was reviewing the facts on which he had based his 1964 promises to the Tribe. In October, he approved of usage of Truckee and Carson River wa­ters which was contrary to the Task Force report he had approved in 1964. He also announced that he couldn't make any specific guarantees to the Paiutes about Pyramid Lake. By this time, the construction of Stampede Dam, the first dam for the Washoe Project, was well underway. 
Since the Federal ·Government had demonstrated how simple it was to steal Indian water, the states of Nevada and California began negotiating for the remain­ing water the Tribe was receiving for the lake. Again the Tribe was faced with having to conduct a 
· fight without the aid of their trustee, the Bureau of Indian Af­fairs, which again refused to defend the Tribe's interests. 
The three discussed the problem "at length" in a meeting held on Bill Harrah, the casino owner's boat, which was anchored in the middle of Lake Tahoe. Tribal council members of the Paiutes were in­vited to participate in the meeting 
INDIAN VOICE 7 

at Lake Tahoe, but Chairman James Vidovich said "the hell with it. 'If he (Hickel) wants to discuss our problems, he should have the cour­tesy to come here where the problem realJy is (at Pyramid Lake)." 
It was at this historic meeting that the two governors and Hickel made an historic boo-boo. They jointly agreed that in order to stop the evaporation of Pyramid Lake and stabilize its level the water level should be reduced by .110,000 surface acres -which would have caused the level of the lake to drop by another 152 feet! The outcry by irate white citizens of the area wasn't for Pyramid Lake, however. The concurrent announcement that this loss of Pyramid Lake water would raise the level of Lake Tahoe by one foot, and would cause about one million dollars worth of prop­erty damage to shore front property, . all of which is owned by whites, set them scraming. The Indians' protest was lost in the shuffle. 
The million-dollar loss to Tahoe owners far out-weighed the incal­culable loss of 152 feet of water from Pyramid Lake, but it was enough to make the three officials change their minds on the question of water disposition. Following the episode, Hickel established the Pyramid Lake Task Force to study the water problems "in depth". This action led Tribal Chairman Vidovich to remark, "It reads like a form letter left over from the Udall days, replacing 'dam' with 'compact'. No 'compact' until assurances of water for Pyramid Lake." 
The Tribe, withdrew from par­ticipation in Hickel's Task Force, which Vidovich charges was "just another game which allowed the Federal Government to side­step its trust responsibilities to the ·Indian people." The Task Force study group, which was charged with finding more water for Pyramid Lake, · was overwhelmingly anti­Indian; its members represented interests directly in conflict with the interests of the Tribe. 
Two years later, the final report claimed the Task Force could find only 95,000 acre-feet for Pyramid Lake, a recommended importation of water from California's Honey Lake, and a wish for more rain. The report whitewashed the 
(See page 38) 

• 
(Photo by Ata Kanda) 




a_yanaomawo youth_ 



INDIAN VOICE 9 





BRAZIL'S INDIANS: 
The American West Revisited 

Giant Brazil, that South American try of the Amazon River and Val­is the scene of o~e of the. final unts on the American contment. la that country of c?ffee .beans and 
r, the intruders, m this case the ndants of the Portugese who set­the country in the sixteenth cen­are in the final phases of an ex­
·on drive against the natives of the ntry, the Indians who have lived re for thousands of years. The scene 
in many ways a replay ofU.S. history. 
The great drive called "Manifest Des­
io the United States, or the doc­that the white man was destined 
overrun the world and hold it under · imperialist thumb, and which in the s almost wiped out the Indians the Western United States, is being ted in Brazil. Indians in that coun­are being killed, forced out of their cheated, and lied to, just as in Old West of Kit Carson, Wyatt and the other Indian killers. And movement in Brazil is being done for exactly the same reasons-gold, for minerals, and lust for the now being held by the natives. In t~e nineteenth century the U. S. cmment officially sanctioned the re­. ~I of Indians from their home ter­
nto · · 

ld~es 10 the U mted States and indeed IC rs removed some of ' our parents bay~net. point. The same thing is . ~pen_mg m Brazil today. An investi­
100. 10 l967 by the Brazilian govern-
t mt · · 
(IP O its Indian Protection Serv-S), an arm of the Interior De­
ment (j t 1-k 
· . us i e the Bureau of In­
0 
to th:~airs in the U. S.) leaked out It ropea_n press in 1968. As a 
hich : the mv_estigation, the JPS, one as established in 1910 was 
away · ' 
acional d with~ and the Fundacao Place. 0 lnd10 (FUNAI) took its 
The investigation showed that the 
JPS was helping the developers of Bra­
zil's hinterlands kill the Indians there, 
by methods ranging from hunting them 
down to bombing them with dynamite 
from airplanes. 
But the mild reforms instituted did 
not solve the problem of genocide that 
was being waged. In the next three 
years two missions from Europe were 
allowed to travel through the interior, 
the area of Brazil that is still largely 
undeveloped, and in which the Indians 
live, and both found that the Indians 
were still being relocated against their 
will, killed off through disease and out­
right murder, and in general little bet­
ter off than they had been under their 
former murderer-protectors. 
Brazil is a larger nation than th~ 

United States, but the total population 
is only 95 million, or less than half 
that of the U. S. And this population 
is concentrated in a very small part of 
the country, mostly along the perimeter 
of the country which borders the At­
lantic Ocean, and in the Northeastern 
section of the country · there is much 
potential for social unrest, something 
the military dictatorship government 
does not want to see. The population 
in the central and southern areas is 
very dense; they contain only 26% of 
the nation's land area, but hold 67% . 
of the population, and generate 83% 
of the national income. 
The rest of the population is divided 
between the Northeast, which has 25-30 
million people, and the great central 
portion ofthe country, Amazonia, which 
has one of the lowest densities of popu­
lation in the world-less than one per­
son per square kilometer. It is in this area that almost all the Indians live, · and also in which there are vast riches. In Amazonia, which makes up 59% of Brazil's land area, are vast stores of 
iron ore, minerals of various kinds, lumber, gold, diamonds, silver, phos­phate, nickel, quartz, tin, copper, man­ganese, tungsten, bauxite (from which aluminum is made), and some others. Most of these require huge mining com­plexes to extract them from the earth, and Brazil is short on these kinds of resources, and the means, money and technology, to build them. As a result, in many cases, the developing is done with foreign investors supplying most of the capital and engineering knowhow. American money, from Standard Oil on down, is very popular with the gen­erals who run Brazil, and American companies have huge investments in the country. Brazilian authorities expect the income from mining alone to pro­duce up to half a billion dollars a year in income for the nation. But because foreign investors have control of most of the investments, most of the money will not stay in Brazil; it will find its way into New York and London banks. 
It is these companies who are the most avid Indian hunters. As the 1967 investigation revealed, it was these com­panies which paid for the guns and the dynamite to kill the natives who had been slaughtered in the 1950's and 1960's. 
The population figures for the na­tives tell some of the story. When the first Portugese colonists came into the country in the 1500's, there were be­tween three and four million natives in the area that became Brazil. Hund­reds of tribes of these original people have been wiped out in the meantime, leaving today 143 tribes still living in the country. In 1900, there were 500,000 Indians still living; in 1957 the figure was down to 80,000; and in 1972 the figure is down to 50,000. All this, plus some other evidence, provides a 
(See Page 33) 


,-,;~ 
( ) 

(J?hoto by Marie-Helene Laraque) 
Over 800 Indians gathered in Sac­to protest injustices against Indians ramento for a march on the Capitol in the case of Michael "Hunky" Ferris 

INDIAN VOICE 11 



MARCH FOR JUSTICE 
A DEMAND FOR JUSTICE TO INDIANS 
~ad Bear's Report on the March 
(hJitor's note: On March 7, 1972, t 800 to 900 Indians marched h the streets of Sacramento, . 0,nia, ending on the steps of Capitol, demanding justice in death of Michael Ferris, a co/­student from the Hoopa Indian tion who had been killed by ,Ute bartender. The bartender subsequently charged with laughter. Mad Bear was one the leaders in the march, and 1,as been one of the traditional leaders around the nation Here he gives 
I stepped from the car I was 
by the heat of the valley .and ight of more than 600 Indian le, who completely surrounded 
Sacramento Indian Center and 
both sides of the street. noise of their conversations deafening, and varied from sorrow to disgust and angry
bursts. 
~y represented about· 75 tribes, . Nations, and Indian organ­: .from Alaska and Canada cx1co. Their ages were as -. as evidenced by babies 
10 
cradleboards · the lame

old ' 
on crutches and canes ­t~e~ ~ere all determined to Justice for the cold-blooded er of Michael "B k ,, F · 
una UQ y erns, r;ned 20-year old Hoopa hadrom Northern California, b been shot by a white · artender nattied Richard 
on. The sh · ·
the '4C' ootmg had occurred k, C~~~e 1:1 Bar" in Willow 197 1. orma, on December Wm 
ow Creek police the . Attorney and G' d 
. an a d. ' a ran 
, not isgraceful mockery of . th only defended the bar­e killing, but operated 
as a "Kangaroo Court" and refused to prosecute the murderer, who was released to run loose in Willow Creek to continue his murdering. These so-called officials contended "Ferris was only an Indian." It did not take long to realize that with the mood of the enormous crowd, tempers were short and violence could erupt at the slightest provo­cation. 
It was evident that something was amiss before the march started; no one had offered an Indian pray­er for protection and guidance. Then Francis Boots, a young Mohawk traditional warrior and representative of the famous WHITE ROOTS OF PEACE Indian group from Northern New York, was picked to "burn tobacco" in a sacred ceremony ofthe Iroquois. 
The Executive Director of the Sacramento Indian Center, Tom Plouffee, called everyone together for the ceremony. Cameras, tape recorders, and reporters were barred from recording the ceremony. Joe Bill, a long-haired Eskimo from Alaska, who was one of the first swimming invaders of Alcatraz Is­land, kindled the fire reqµired .for the ceremony. Francis Boots offered a prayer in the Mohawk language and was assisted by Tom Plouffee, relatives of the late Michael Ferris, and myself. 
A great silence fell on the massive crowd at the first warhoop of the Mohawk tobacco burning ceremony This silence was broken only b; the prayer of young Boots and the occasional sobs of the Ferris family. W~ prayed for protection, spiritual ?mdance, and unity of thought dur­mg the march. As the prayer ended, the mood of the crowd seemed to relax immediately. Our prayers had been heard and answered by t}:le Great Spirit. 
Tom Plouffee conferred with the other leaders and announced that the march would start as soon as the parents of Michael Ferris re­turned from the Governor's office, where they had tried once again to talk to Governor Ronald Reagan. Within a few minutes they arrived, and reported that they had once again been unsuccessful. The march started immediately, and was led by an old puckup truck carrying five drummers, who chanted and played the entire dis­tance to the State Capitol. The pickup truck overheated on three occasions, and seemed more thirs­ty than the marchers in the mount­ing heat ofthe day. 
Despite the fact that the press, TV, and news media were not no­tified, they turned out in droves with their cameras and tape re­corders to record the entire event. A well-organized crew of long­haired Indian youths, wearing red arm bands, head bands, and other Indian regalia, ran to each inter­section to direct traffic and service the needs of of the marchers. They were later backed up by a very courteous contingent of city police in cars and on motorcycles. Their flashing red lights and cooperation seemed to be regarded as the semi­official nod of the City of Sacra­mento. 
As one of the five drummers and singers riding in the back of the pickup truck, I had a command view of the entire march, which was growing fast, with new march­ers, -Indian, White, Black, and Chicano -joining in. The conting­ent consisted of about 800-900 as we neared the Capitol, and most ofthem were Indian. 
I was informed that 28 Indian organizations were ~epresented there, 
(Over) 


SACRAMENTO 

(Continued) and that nearly 100 Hoopa Indians were marching. The Iroquois Con­federacy of New York and Canada was represented by 32 marchers. A group of Cree Indians had hitch­hiked from Northern Alberta, Can­ada, taking six days to reach Sacramento. Another group from Washington State had walked over 300 miles to be there. Some had long since discarded their wornout shoes and were marching bare­footed. We arrived at the State Capitol carrying protest signs, war whoop­ing, chanting, and shouting for justice. The effect was stimulating to say the least. A sound system was rigged on the steps of the Capitol building. Speaker after speaker denounced the white man's double standard of justice and whitewash, and de­manded an immediate change in policy regarding Indians. Lehman Brightman, president of United Native 'Americans, gave the first long speech on the murder of "Bunky" Ferris. Every speaker demanded that the white racist bartender, Richard Marmon, be arrested and brought to trial immediately for the sense­less cold-blooded murder. They branded the so-called "Grand Jury" a kangaroo court consisting of bigoted white racists who re­fused to prosecute a person of their own race. The local police department and District Attorney's attitude was well reflected by the statement of at least one public official who stated, "So what, he was only a damned Indian." This historic march of over 800 Indians represented the largest Indian demonstration in the history of the State of California, but it also represented something else. The people there were joined to­gether on a single issue, united in thought, and this is the real his­toric milestone. President Nixon, the U.S. At­torney General, Governor· Reagan, and the state Attorney· General have all refused Michael's parents' request for an investigation mto the matter. During the two-hour demonstration at the Capitol, sev­eral attempts were made to contact Reagan, the state Attorney General, and other public officials -all to no avail. 


According to one report we re­ceived, the secretary to Governor Reagan curtly replied that Reagan had remarked before the march that he had never heard of the "Ferris case", but even as we were being informed about this, one of the marchers was listening to a radio newscast that said Governor Reagan had remarked that the "Indians certainly have a just case." The radio report indicated that the Governor had made this comment before the march started. It now appears that someone in the Governor's office was lying. 
We as Indians are sick and tired of the double standard of justice that the ··· white · power str-ucture 
keeps hanging around our necks. We intend to change this policy, in a peaceful protest if . possible, but we will not rest until it does change. 
Until now our Indian leaders politely refused the repeated offers to join forces with the Blacks and other ethnic groups who have tried to secure their rights through dem­onstrations that sometimes become violent. We have been patient too long, waiting for the justice which never seems to come. The restless Indian youth will not wait any longer; they are pressing the elders to accept these offers as they and we are sick and tired of the double standard of justice in this country. We intend to change the entire white power structure, by peaceful means if possible, but we will change it come what may. 
We as leaders are gravely con­cerned with the violence and destruction which will surely follow if we are forced into accepting the only help that seems available to us at this time. 
The leaders, organizers, donors, and people who made the march in Sacramento possible deserve much credit, and especially the 

Angeles and Sacramento centers, who provided t 
tation to and from the ma~!h 
offered the use of their tel and other facilities for the ca us/Pho 
The Sacramento Indian not only found room and fo~ the ~archers, but also provid fi meetmg place for us, and allla~­ly fed the more than 800 ~..
••IQrc ~ 

~t the Ce!1ter. They are truly mg the Indian community. 
The directors of both ce had just returned from a ,.-. meeting in Omaha, Nebraska, ._IC 
they both pitched in to help am--. the march. ---. United Na!ive Americans pla a large part m the organizing, 
tacting and informing the In · people who participated in the 
march. 
A Black official, Assembl Willie Brown, was the only pu · official who openly . offered us · help and made suggestions for plan of action. His speech was corned by all ofus. 
I feel that the demonstration the Capitol should have lasted longer than two hours, conside · the days of travel, expense, and hardship our people endured in der to get there. Also, more time should have been extended to speakers, who were sometimes off suddenly, · just when they getting warmed up, especially elders, leaders, and traditio medicine men, people who should always be extended every co and respect. 
At this writing we are wai · for some positive response fr Governor Reagan and the po that be. Hopefully, it will co quickly, before it is too late. . 
Already massive demonstratlo are under discussion for the DCII' future -if we don't get some suits from the Governor's offi and the other of~icials. conce= A massive march 1s bemg pla for the racist, bigoted town Willow Creek California, if a full­scale investig~tion is not forthCOID­ing soon. 
A word to the wise should sufficient. Signed Mad Bear, Tuscarora Indian Nation Lewistown, New York 




INDIAN VOICE 13



arifcies~--~-~~-~---------­
. 

THE NEW EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS 
In the past five years a new move­ment has appeared among Indian people -the determination to take over the process by which their children are educated, and to trans­form it from an all-white orientation into an Indian orientation. This must be done; the price we are pay­ing in dropouts, failures, heartbreak, and suicides is absolutely too high to be allowed to continue. 
By September there will be 15 schools and 3 junior colleges run by Indians. Here they are listed. 
BIA Contracted Schools 
Blackwater School Pima Indian Reservation Coolidge, Arizona 
Miccosukee Corporation Miccosukee Reservation Tamiami, Florida 33144 
Omaha Tribal School Omaha Indian Reservation Macy, Nebraska 

Rough Rock Demonstration School Navajo Indian Reservation Chinle, Arizona 86503 
Ramah.:.Navajo High School Navajo Indian Reservation Ramah, New Mexico · 

Stephan High School Crow Creek Sioux Reservation Fort Thompson, S.D. 
St. Michael's High School 

Devil's Lake Sioux Reservation St. Michaels, N.D. 
Wind River Education Association Wind River Reservation Ethete, Wyoming 82520 
Indian-controlled public schools Pine Point Day School White Earth Reservation Pine Point, Minn. 
Rocky Boy's School Rocky Boy's Reservation Box Elder, Montana 

Tama School Mesquakie Indian Reservation Tama,Iowa 

Schools seeking BIA contracts 
Busby School System Northern Cheyenne Reservation Busby, Montana 
Borrego Pass School Navajo Indian Reservation Little Water, N.M . 
Loneman School Oglala Sioux Reservation Pine Ridge, S.D. 57770 
Rock Point School Navajo Indian Reservation Chinle, Arizona 86503 

Indian-controlled community colleges 
Navajo Community College Navajo Indian Reservation Chinle, Arizona 86503 
Sinte Gleska College Center Rosebud Sioux Reservation Rosebud, S.D. 
LakotaHigher Education Center Oglala Sioux Reservation Pine Ridge, S.D:57770 
Do not imagine that you love your children if you merely talk about loving them. They will be able to judge for themselves whether your actions equal your words. 
. -Winnebago 

A man must make his own arrows. -Omaha 

bor'S scJiool iric orpora tes 
·CREE GJNDI Al( CULTURE 
If you dropped into the Rocky Boy School you might be surprised to find a wrinkled, leathery-faced Indian of 85 or so sitting crosslegged on the floor telling the circle of children about the buffalo hunt of his father's day. 
Or it might be a silent, little Indian grandmother showing how animals hides were used for garments and moc­casins, or demonstrating beading. 
Older Indians of the community .are assisting in the bicultural instruction at Rocky Boy Elementary School. While helping the students understand them­selves, they have also sparked a new community interest in school and edu­cation, according to Gerald Gray, school principal. 
Gray, as a consultant at the recent curriculum development seminar for Indian teachers and Indian Head Start directors held at the College of Great Falls, told of the new curriculum at the Rocky Boy School. 
Twelve teachers and 20 teachers aides, most of them Indians, designed the curriculum and coordinated it in all subject areas, beginning three years ago, but doing most of the work last year. 
Its three key facets are individualized instruction, bilingual (English and Cree) and bicultural (Indian and non-Indian), instruction. 
"the whole attitude of the comnninity and the student population has changed; 
it is much more positive now," Gray 
said. "There is less absenteeism. Each 
child works at his own ability level, 
sometimes setting his own goals and 
sometimes working with the teacher oi: 
programmed material." 
Why off er bi-lingual instruction in 
this day and age? Gray answered his 
own question: "To help a child develop 
a good positive attitude about himself 
and other Indians. An Indian child has 
been made to feel, ever since he was 
tiny, that he is a nothing, a knothead." 
"A white man's curriculum can be 
totally irrelevent to his background and 
needs. A white teacher may have a doc­
torate but he may not understand the 
Indian. He may not be able to give the 
Indian child the sense of belonging, the 
esteem he must have to be able to 
achieve and come to self-actualization." 
Gray stressed that for 150 years In­dians have had no say in their educa­tion programs. 
"My parents were taught not to speak the tribal language and they forced it out of us. So for a long time not too much of our tribal culture was not re­corded. But I can't be a white man, no matter how much a white man tries to ~a~e _me one." 
"So we really needed the older Indian people, who are the real experts, to come in and help us. All we are saying is give us a chance to express ourselves, communicate with our own kiDd. want our children to be fluent in English and Cree. We know must teach them skills they will off the reservation to function • mainstream of society." 

For their curriculum, teachen aides have written the first te with Cree sounds and characten page and English on the opposite Upper grade children did many illustrations. The school system a printing press, and its own did a professional job on the The press and audio visual were purchased from private tion funds. 
"Now the child can read about he knows about instead of about and Jane going to New York. He' ulated. His reading ability · He learns about Chief Rocky 8oJ about the history and expe~e his people and he holds up his 
Gray said it is sad that so few reservations have any say a~out own school systems and cum 

INDIAN VOICE 15 

. heard a few times people say­Ih ,e atives are drunkards." I be­
t~~t it i not right for someone to . when they do not understand . th• n why Native people do drink. 
r a o d
hat people must try to un er­

1

I d ~e problem of alcoholism before 0 / rm an opinion of the problem · ~ing the Alaska ~ative.. I have 
. nto detail and studied this prob-

o I • f h
nd Jwi h to give you some o t e 10 of why many Alaskan Native pie do drink... · 
I ound my study very interesting and 1h pe the ame goes for you. 
THE PROBLEM 

The con umption of alcohol in Alas­. the highest per capita of any state th United States. This leads Alaska to facing many problems. It brings a a most serious social problem, mo t alarming medical problem. re are alcoholics in practically all communities in Alaska. A great rden i placed in the communities h re legal authorities try to control me related to alcohol consumption. Thou ands of dollars are lost annual­in. ma~~ of the small villages and 
o mg cities across Alaska to the mis­
of alcohol. The problem gets into m and family situations. All these oblem eem to get into a "vicious 
I where problems give rise to dif­"! or new problems. 
Thi i the reason why we should not ore the problems of alcoholism re­l ~ to the Native people of Alaska. hO hould not be ignored in many 
~ tother cultures which face these . em all around the world. 


DRINJ{l/+{y: 
A SERIOUS 
PROBLEM IN 

ALASKA 
ALCOHOL INTRODUCED to ALASKA 

Alcohol has been brought to Alaskan communities by traders, whalers, can­nery workers, and even by the United States Armed Forces. 
At first, the Eskimos, Aleuts, and Indians along the coastal areas of Alas­ka came into contact with alcohol, be­cause the traders and whalers first came to Alaska by ships. These traders and whalers were usually white people. These white traders and whalers usually traded all kinds of alcoholic beverages for fu,rs, baleen, ivory, and many other items that the Native people had. 
"It has been previously mentioned that during the latter half of the nine­teenth century, when whaling vessels frequented the Arctic Ocean, the Eski­mos at Point Hope and other coastal villages received supplies of whiskey in exchange for baleen, and also learned to make their own intoxicating liquor from flour and molasses," according to James W. Van Stone in AN ESKIMO VILLAGE IN TRANSITION.... 
When many early commercial indus­tries started in Alaska, especially the salmon canneries, many of the Natives were also taught to make their own "home brew~" During the late l 900's and the beginning of the twentieth cen­tury, the villages at the mouth of Nu­shahak River in Bristol Bay began to feel the impact of alcohol there. 
"The cannery employees (mostly Ori­ental) also taught the Eskimos to man­ufacture intoxicants and cases of church discipline were frequently connected with drinking." 
Many of the Eskimos drank because they did not have the skill to work in the canneries. This is the reason why Orientals were brought to work. Mora­vian Bishop Hamilton, who stayed among the villages of Nushagak River, stated in 1905: 
"To complete the dark picture it must be added that the Chinese in particular have taught the Natives to brew and distill a terrible kind of drink. Graham flour, brown sugar and water are mixed so as to form a horrid mash, which is first allowed to ferment and then dis­tilled. I was told that very few men on the N ushagak can resist the temptation to concoct this fearful drink." (Van Stone.) 
(Over) 

DRINKING 

(Continued) The current Associate Pastor of the Episcopal Church in Sitka, Reverend 
George Beacom, said that the Native people in the area of Nome, Alaska were exposed to alcohol by some of the 
5000 troops that were stationed in Nome. During this time there were many army camps and placements be­ing constructed in villages along the coastal areas of Alaska. 
The reason the army camps and place­ments were being set up was because of the December 7, 1941 incident at Pearl Harbor. Right then, the United States thought that Japan would "attack" Alaska and take over, so the Japanese could have a "stronghold." After the Japanese took over, they would then work their way down south, taking over the United States. 
So the United States built these army camps and placements to protect Alaska. Beer was rationed out to the troops and in this way some of the Natives were able to get alcohol. 
They would seem to want "anything 
· that contained alcohol." They would take anything from shaving lotion to medicine which contained alcohol. 
PROBLEMS IN THE ALASKAN NATIVES' WAY OF LIFE 
Now I would like to concentrate on many points of the Alaskan Natives way of life which I feel are conducive to their problem of taking alcohol. I feel that all these points are very in­fluential and give rise to the majority of the reasons why they take alcohol. These points are broken down to home life, community life, and school life. 
Home Life 

In their home life, the majority of the Natives are losing one of their major forms of recreation. This is story telling. This type of recreation used to be some­thing like an art. Now this form of en­tertainment seems to be losing its popu­larity and value. The old storytellers do not tell them as much as they used to and the younger generation of Natives do not listen to them any more. 
"Before, life was a struggle with the elements for survival; people were en­tirely dependent on the land and the community. Now there is less hunting, more part-time construction jobs, fire fighting, welfare and food stamps." ("Escape -The Past." VISTA VOLUN­TEER) I am sure that many story­tellers are not going to tell legends and stories about part-time construction jobs and welfare and food stamps. 
You see, many of the old legends and stories had good morals in them. Many of the people followed these morals. Now as these old legends and stories are being lost, the morals are going with them. I feel that if many of the legends and stories were not being lost as they are, there would be numerous legends and stories today which contain morals telling the Native people not to drink. Morals in their verbal literature today could keep the younger genera­tion closer in line. 
The Native parents of today have lived in a primitive culture. How do people expect the parents of a culture 
in transition to give their c_hildren · 
"good" guidance to live in an advanced world? Many of the parents who are in this transition do not know all the facts about alcohol.'Many of them can prob­ably tell their children to live off the . land in Alaska, but many of them prob­ably can not tell them to live with alco­holic beverages in a decent manner. Thus, you can see that the younger Native Alaskans today have not had the proper kind of guidance in living 
with alcohol. 
"Seldom do Eskimo youths volun­
tarily engage in activities, other than 
those associated with household chores 
or hunting, with their parents and older 
relatives. By fourteen they have won 
privileges younger children do not have: 
in particular, they may smoke, play 
cards, and stay up at night as long as 
they like." (Norman A. Chance, THE 
ESKIMO OF NORTH ALASKA) This 
shows that many of the parents of the 
Alaskan Natives do not know what the 
freedom they give their children can do 
to them. Certainly this freedom they 
give to their children can lead' many of 
their young ones to drinking liquor. 
Also, many of the Native homes are much too small. The !e~pof homes in the isolated villages aJo from one to two rooms. It is s ~y "There is no real effort to conce~ d . ing from children of any age: They be chased away if they become too 
'OUS or numerous, but otherwise th free to watch anything that occu ey 
~here can a person chase the c~· at mght when most of the drinking place? :he young ~at_ives are able see their parents drmkmg liquor. 
Another problem the Native J>Co 
have at home is little knowledge 
how to spend money. This could be 
reason why many of them do d · 
Many of the Native families do 
spend their money on budgets. Who· 
to blame them? When the Russians 
here in Alaska, they would trade 
for supplies that the Eskimos, Ale 
and Indians needed. 
But when the American pion 
came to Alaska, they gave the a· 
people money for the items they tr 
The Native did not know how to 
the money for supplies. So, when Native people spend money for b they may not realize how much mo they are going to have left. This i they spend so much money for alco 
Community Life 
In their community life, the people have no other forms of r 
tion except seeing motion pictures, P . ing pool if they have a pool tabl the village, and having dances on a while. "Types of recreation that yo of the new culture depend on are available to Eskimos." ("Escape ­Past") Thus, many of the young turn to alcohol to have something to d. 
They could go trapping, but who going to go trapping if the prices of animal pelts are going down? . could go hunting, but who is go•!1' hunt if all the groceries are availa in their local store? 
Many of the villages have n? laws. "Today, all Alaskan Esktlil lages with a population of 100 or have some form of self-governOR (Chance, THE ESKIMO OF ALASKA) Each village usually . These Village Councils This problem of communication can


1
counci · f leading members of 

also be found between the Native stu­rnposed O members would give dents and counselors in many of the ·u,ge. The~e·ons and judgments if 
schools in Alaska. The reason for thisal opin1 ·11
rnutu happen in the v1 ages. is because many of the students seem in8 was tho y would do what the 
to be afraid of communicating with 
·mes t e b 

u ·uage would want to e their counselors.
of the v1 The students dislike meeting with

. Uy everyone kn~ws e~ery pferson ua. so there is a kmd o mu­counselors who wear white shirts and 
viUage_, mong them. This causes ties, and also suits. Counselors who are 
. d h1pa .

fn ~ not to enforce their c~m-wearing such clothes seem to put a gap ·. uveles very strictly concernm~ between the student and himself when 
t ru 1 hol The Village Council they meet. Meeting in an office and of a co pie. out of the village if sitting between desks seems to put a nd Pteoo much trouble drinking. gap too. 
u e o 1 
many villages where ru es
re are . 

. t but again there are v11-Now, ifa counselor cannot communi­ry tntche'ir rules are fairly lenient. cate with his Native students, how can
here . . 

ny of the Natives dnnk, es-we expect students to have guidelines or 
t ma . h 

0 during the summer time w en goals to follow? Many Native students f the Native people work for could be saved from drinking if more informal counselling were given them.
income. 
The counselors should dress more likeSchool Life the students do. They should counselHundreds of the Native s~u­them informally where the students re ent to high schools which hang around. There are many studentsdormitories in sue~ ~laces as Mt. 
right now who need help. 
umbe at Sitka, Wilham Beltz at 
m and at Kodiak. Large numbers "There is every evidence that the need th m u ed to be sent to Chemawa, for alcoholism information, education, on and Chilocco, Oklahoma. treatment, and research is as great in P ntly many are being sent to proportion to the population as in any rding home" programs at almost other state." ("Special Staff Offices-Of­community which has a high fice of Alcoholism." ALASKA'S 
I. uch communities include An­HEALTH AND WELFARE) ra e, Fairbanks, Bethel, Kotzebue, "A proposal to solve problems di­Dillingham. They are sent to these rectly related to alcoholism within rural 
because the majority of the vil-communities was unanimously adopted e aero Alaska have no high by the Rural CAP Board at their Feb­
I . In many of these places the ruary 4-5 (1971) meeting in Juneau." nt get extremely homesick, lone­(" Alcoholism Proposal." THE VIL­nd depre sed. Thus, many of them LAGE VOICE) This is another present lo cape" their situations by drink-trend Alaska is taking to solve some of its problems tied with alcohol. This 
In many of these schools the Native proposal is to provide technical assis­cnt are not encouraged or are ab-tance to communities which are trying
ut I f b' '
t' or 1dden, to speak their orig-to solve some of their alcohol problems. anguage. There many Native stu­
People who are non-professional al­_come to feel that the language 
coholism counselors from communities h ir parent is undesirable 
across Alaska will be picked to begin .0 ~fthe Native students have dif-intensive training in Anchorage. 1 10 p k' h
T . ea mg t e English Ian-They will be trained under the An­. hi .keep many of the students chorage Alcoholism Manpower Group 
J>Cakmg up in classes Many of

tend to b . · 
ta e t .e ~met students. They0 dnnkmg because they can 
more and b .h · fl e more aggressive un­
m uence of alcohol. 

INDIAN VOICE 17 

and the Alaska Methodist University. They will study counselling and case management. Then they will return to their communities to conduct personal and family counselling. They will also be active in coordinating activities in their communities that concern alco­holism. This is good because these peo­ple know the problems already and should be able to cope with them. 
Alaska has a long way to go, but some day these problems will be in a much less than they are now. 
by Andrew Golia (Reprinted from Native News) 
~. 
~-­
The more you • 
worship your wife ' 
the more she 
will want to be
1, worshipped. 
l 
' It is not good to be enslaved , byawoma~_.... 

WINNEBAGO 
There are three things 
it takes a strong man 
to hold: 
-a young warnor 
-a wild horse 
and a handsome squaw. 
r, I 

n 
I : 
: 
I 
I 

I 
I 
I 
I 

I', II 
' 
, ,,J 
• I 

r, 
' 
I• 
I 

I 
I 
r; 
II 
I 
I 

I 
I
!i 

ll 
j 
, : 

I 
l 

I. 
I' 11 
I' 
I• 
I\ ·, 
I 
II 
l 
11 
I
I ii II 
' 
'I 
11 

I left Norfork at 7:30 A.M., and went via Newport News to West Point, Vir­ginia. From this point, we took State Road 30 to the reservation. We turned 
12.2 miles northwest of West Point. The road to the reservation was on the left side of the highway. We went about two miles to the 150 acre reservation. 
We visited Chief 0. T. Custalow of the tribe. Their living conditions are above average for the rural standard. The box frame houses were well painted and they had electric lights, running wa­ter, and other household conveniences. We sat and talked with Chief Custalow for about an hour. Then we went to church with the Indians. He was inter­ested in the land claims of the Western Indians. He said that his tribe had for­merly held larger grants in the county with beaded designs, drums, gourd rattle, buffalo horn head piece, a staff with a buffalo horn on it, beaded moc­casins, a large oyster shell basin, col­lections ofarrowheads, an executioner's club striped wi,th red and black as also found on the war clubs, wampum shells, beaded necklaces, pottery shards, and collections of photographs and newspapers. 
In beadwork, the backgrounds were blue or black with flower designs which Were reminiscent of Iroquois speciIJ.lens. The darker colors were on the outside and lighter colors fading into them. The colors of the·felt costumes were black or red. The buckskin items were light tan. The pottery were from potters on the Pamunkey reservation and the de­signs were turquoise on buff. 


in the past. These lands had been leased 
and the timber sold off them. 
We broached the problem of Indian­Negro intermarriages and the Matta­ponis were said to keep aloof from the Negroes. The chief had 13 children, seven boys and six girls. His first wife was a Chickahominey Indian and his second wife is white. His sons have all married except two; one who is in the Navy and another who was in a Baptist Indian church school. He expressed a desire for complete frankness. 
~fter a few minutes, we went into his den-museum. He had many cultural artifacts, among which were stone adzes, small grain morter and pestle of wood and stone, a double pointed stone hammer-axe which was used as a weapon to kill wounded warriors, a duck decoy head piece, three war clubs with a knot-screw end, (one was said to be 200 years old), buckskin cos­tumes with fringe on them, a girdle 
After a brief viewing of the artifacts, we went to the Baptist Church. A representative view of the community 
A representative view of the community of 75 people could be seen here. There were many small children of both sexes, a few teen-age boys, and more adult men than women. The older boys and girls were either married or away at school. The oldest men were in their sixties. It was explained that not many 

_ people lived past eighty nowadays. 
Some of the people showed Negroid features in their wavey hair and thicker lips. The handshake of the Indians was limp but friendly. The children played their games in group style. Their man­ner at receiving newcomers was one of open friendship when they invite people to meals. Humor is indirect but not sarcastic. 
After the chu-rch service, we went back to the Chiefs house for a meal. We sat down and were urged to eat freely of fish, potato st 

beef roast ribs and bi·s e'!,
' CU1ts

were served as well as a d · Following the meal w ~~ 
. , ere

d
en and Chief Custalo 
w &ot

drum and sang us som d The Mattoponi remem~ra:=e dances, namely the Welco 
. me

W
a~n<?r, War, and Peace ' 

basic style was a variation f 
dance wit_h a countercloc: . 
ment. A fire was built in th 
the dance circle. e He we~t on to explain about and the times of Powhatan hontas. Powhatan's brother Wopikanu, who later became the Powhatan Confederacy. W went to war against the English and the tribe was reduced to fi dividuals who became the p toponi. Originally, Pocahontas to have known the plans of p and told the English of them. sent to the Eastern Shore to hatan allies. The Mattoponia their clam shell bowl was used hontas. Wopikanu in his war speech buffalo horn staff as a sym the Chief quoted the speech words of the Powhatan Ian were two stories of the Civil W that were known to the Chief. federates used to raid the In for recruits and the young boys as women to escape detection went to work in the fields. Another Civil War story co crippled boy with crutches fishing on the river bank. He the northern bank when the Forces approached. They sho him to stop when he began to shouted back· "Give me time t
' . .
Fishing is an occupation w 

gaged in commercially. They ha -garden plots. A school tbro 
eighth grade is maintained 
teachers. There is a store as 
left the reservation at two o'cl 
returned to Norfork by car. 
byJohnD.ff 

fwINNEBAGO 
'Blessings 
are not obtained through mere desire alo 
Especially difficult 
I
-~is it to be leader 
: on the warpath. 

• Indian School ha.s l~ng
0

(,'biloecd reputation among Indian a b~he · teachers there have a le. of turnover. The student rate s greatly from year to chang~o not go all the way 111°~\gh school there, usually ugh . to another school as
erringthey can. 
nas Chilocco w.as investi­
1969

Jn team from the Bureau aed ~y a Affairs in Washington,
Jnd1an · 
. discovered some maJ or ·ngs of the school, such rt:~:ng of students, jailing:nd denying them food. The 
• when asked what he
1

pa ' ·f h
do with more mon~y i e it, replied, "I would bmld more pace." 
That principal, D~. Leon _Wall, fired for his part m the. Chilocco . ent for allowing the kids to be ten· ' the investigat?rs found en ribs, mangled wnsts, and so 
But the next year Dr. Wall was · in the BIA, and as usual in cases, he had been promoted. as made the Area Director of ucation in the Anadarko, Oklaho­Area Office. And conditions · 't get any better at Chilocco, 
r. 
La t fall, when some girl students beaten by the janitor and others with a flashlight, a broke out at the school. The again sent investigators to the oo~ but the situation was so that they were recalled on the ·ng they arrived at the school, orders given over the phone the Department of the Inter­
. Thus another attempt is being e to cover up the true facts ut the situation there. 
But this time another element added to the situation. At the ti t of so_me of the parents, the 0~1 Indian Youth Council an 
n . ' 
IZahon. of Indian young people, called m to lend its support. . attorneys from the Native · ncan Legal Defense and Edu­
ion Fund .
th were retained by some 
· e P~rents in an effort to have children reinstated; many of had_ been kicked out of the
1 
· Without the benefit of a ~&on the charges. ui::utents we_re reinstated, af­
the ad been filed in court tha~· ~n~ the BIA made a rul­be n~ian students could no kicked out of schools 
INDIAN VOICE 19 






TH~ CHILOCCO SCHOOL PROTESTS 
arbitrarily, without hearing the 
charges against th.em. From now on 
there must be a hearing. This is 
really necessary because of the 
highhanded way many of the "edu­
cators" treat Indian students. 
The following is the National Indian Youth Council's statement on the Chilocco case, and their demands for reform of the insti­tutions, which are today run by whites. 
------~~-------­
ALBUQUERQUE: National Indian 
Youth Council knows that education 
is the key to our survival as a people. 
Indeed the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
devotes the largest portion of its 
budget to education. Our hearts 
and minds are at stake. 
Therefore, the 15,000 members of the NIYC must protest with the greatest vehemence and candor recent policies of Mr. James Hawkins Director of BIA Education. ' 
EMPLOYMENT 

1. 
The BIA Central Education Office employees about 145 people. There are currently about 20 vacancies. Out of 145 only 23 Indians are employed. Of this 2_3. only 4 are in supervisory po­sit10ns (GS-9 and above). 

2. 
In connection with the Student Bill of Rights proposed by NIYC and Indian cultural programs, Mr. Hawkins has hired a 17-year old Anglo high school student as his special assistant, and given him seemingly unlimited travel expenses. This young gentleman's only qualification to deal with these important Indian matters seems to be that his father is an 


' 

................ • ... ... ·-·........... ·-·......... . 
Guard your tongue in youth and in age you may mature a thought that will be ofservice to your people. 

influential Republican. This, while bright, intelligent Indian youth will have only poverty and boredom to look forward to. 
3. 
None of the Divisions is headed by an Indian. Only two of the branch chiefs are Indian -Mr. Dave Warren, Chief of Branch and Cultured Arts and Mr. Leroy Falling, Chief of the Branch of Higher Education. All of the Anglo branch chiefs are GS-14 except one, who is GS-13. This GS-13 is the. Indian, Leroy Falling. 

4. 
At Chilocco Indian School, Doyle Pressly, a guidance super­visor at the school, assaulted 2 Indian students with his flash­light in an effort to break up a disturbance. This assault touched off a student protest at the school with national attention brought to the issue of brutality in BIA schools. Even though he is being sued by the parents of the beaten girls, he was promoted, at the insistence of Hawkins, to become principal of the BIA's Jones Academy m Hartshorne, Oklahoma. This is an outrage to Indian students nationwide, but Mr. Hawkins is so entrenched with his personal non-Indian 


appointees that he is impervious 
to Indian opinion. 
It is obvious that Indian people are subject to gross discrimination within BIA education. Indians suffer because Indians cannot get involved in decision-making. 
Education is the only area where there are qualified Indians to run the branch. That we are denied this opportunity is proof that the en­trenched white racists in the BIA will not relinquish their GS-14's and -l 5's to allow Indians to run their own affairs, in defiance of President Nixon's policy on self­determination. 
Indian education is corrupt. It is a hodge-podge of ripoffs by Anglo 
(Over) 



CHILOCCO 

bureaucrats, who invent expensive projects of no value to Indians simp­ly to justify their positions. 
It is little wonder that we Indians are the least educated people in the country. 
MISALLOCA TION OF FUNDS 
1. After the students at BIA's lntermountain School in Brigham City, Utah raised a protest at the school which culminated in a law suit, the BIA found $1.3 million to renovate the facilities at the school. 
Ironically, the only thing the students were not complaining about was the facilities, which by BIA standards are superior to other boarding schools. Chil­occo and Riverside schools are in desperate need of repair. Yet to placate Utah senators and the Anglo employees at the school, Hawkins found $1.3 million. One week before he announced the new funds, Hawkins told the Washington Post that he intended to close Intermountain. 
2. After the now famous protest at Chilocco Indian School in Oklahoma, BIA decided to send 400 students home for Christmas. No students at the other 76 board­ing schools were given this priv­ilege. By our calculations, we believe approximately _$100,000 to $150,000 was spent on this project, considering round-trip plane tickets for 43 students from Alaska and for several hundred from Washington, Montana and Wyoming. 
The intent was clear. BIA wanted to remove the students from Chil­occo parents and NIYC, who were at that time investigating the school. 
We are happy that students got to spend Christmas at ho~e wit~ their parents. But we beheve this expenditure was entirely unjusti­fied, considering that . by the admission of the supermtendent of-Chilocco, Mr. Dan Sahmaunt, none of the students have their own personal text books, but must share them. 
3. The BIA Higher Education 
Program, which gives college schoiarships, is one of the Bur­eau's most important programs, yet it must compete wit~ other divisions, such as Evaluat10n and Research: which hire professors to study · us. These latter groups drain off much of Higher Educa­tion's money. 
BIA will give some Indian stu­dent $1 ,500 a year to go to college. However, BIA will give a stu­dent $3,914 to go to vocational school. The intent of BIA is clear. It is to discourage us from get­ting degrees so that we cannot compete with the Anglo profes­sors in Research and Evaluation. 
Mr. Hawkins and his hand picked Washington _~oterie have not pushed the higher education program, and have refused · to push it in the current budget hearings now going on in Wash­ington on funding 14,000 Indians desiring to enter college next year. They fear the college edu­cated Indian. NIYC knows that these things 
continue because the Education Pro­gram is run by a group of white academics. We are the victims of American education, but the aspir­ants to a better tomorrow. We must run our own programs. The cry that there are no Indians qualified is a patent and absurd lie. 
Therefore, in the name of justice we demand the following: 
1. 
That all current vacancies be filled with Indians under the BIA "Indian preference" policy; par­ticularly the position of Field Services Administrator for Washington, D.C. in the Albu­querque area, whose head, Mr. Knute Lee is retiring. 

2. 
That Mr. 'Leroy Falling be given a GS-14 in line with his peers. 





3. 
That Doyle Pressly be remo cd as pr~ncip.al of Jones Acade
for his v10lence to Indian dents, and an official apol be given to all Indian studen 

nationwide. 

4. 
That Mr. Sicilano, the 17 old assistant to Hawkins, be moved immediately and repla by an Indian. 

5. 
That the $1.3 million spent on Intermountain, and the countl thousands spent at Chilocco on Christmas travel, be investiga by Commissioner Bruce, and full explanation given to Ind' people. 

6. That a special team compo of tribal leaders be constitu to assist BIA education offi · in the preparation of the Bl education budget and · in its p sentation to Congress; and t this team be allowed to pa all contracts to universitie o study Indian education. . 
7. 
That the BIA Higher Educau Program for college students funded at a level with the Bl program for vocational student · 

8. 
That a plan be drawn up garding Indian employ~ent will place BIA educat10n ~ dominantly in the hands of In people within two years. If Mr. Hawkins cannot a 


these legitimate demands he ho 
h. conresign. The days of w ite 
of Indian affairs are over· d 
If BIA refuses to resd~on Yo quately, the National In ian Council with its 15,000 me~ and 43 chapt~rs, -~ill tau:~ 
national campaign dtrected · 
removal of Hawkins anded aca· 
the policies of the BIA u nd · offices here in Albuquerque a Washington. a
1
This statement is not on·~era · for justice and human ~onst lo it is a warning. We will ~0 
ruptto0.
tolerate such flagrant cor 
~ 


INDIAN VOICE 21 

i watch infear the hummingbird might stab my eyes out with his bill 






INDIAN 
POETRY 
iwill act with honor oyes! for i do speak 
iown 

brother and sister pnto the north people to all quick things for the evil of my father that churn and flow 
iown ihave given that dance and singagainthe honor of my people 

to open eyes 
ugh my whole life to reaching hands 
oyes! come brother you may also live come brother open children pay 
up yourself 
lins of the father. 
your !if e will flow 
Norman Russell all out and out to meet all lives which wait for you!
In the whisper ofthe snow Norman Russell 


to all quick things 
who says the great bear lives the stone is dead the flower lives the pond is dead has scarcely tasted !if e himself he walks about his fingers clenched his ears and eyes his nose and tongue shut tightly and only knows his stranger dreams 
oyes! the stone the pond the wind the sun 
Norman Russell 

the earth the stars all live all share the !if e the gods dispose 

Norman Russell 
the horse could trample my bones with his hooves the badger could tear my throat out in my sleep 
but i walk and i sleep without fear in their homes for the animals do not use their great strength in killing i only watch in fear for the soft weak man. 
Norman Russell 

my peoples revenge 
if the white man wishes the forest if the white man wishes the mountain he shall have them the indian must move on so it is i tell my people 
each young warrior will take his hatchet he will kill one old spruce tree cutting a circle at its base this and nothing more so it is i tell my people 
the white man will not notice or he will wonder a little but he will never understand that in the fifty dead trees will come more beetles than stars 
in many years when our children are old coming forth the many beetles will kill all the trees ofthe mountain to give my people their revenge. 
Norman Russell 

SONG OF THE NAVAJO SILVERSMITH 
How blue is my fire! Blue as the Turquoise. How blue is my fire! Blue as the sky with hot sun. How blue is my fire! Blue hot to melt the silver grains. How blue is my fire! Blue as the blue butterfly. How blue is my fire! Blue as the Turquoise. How blue is my fire! Blue blue is my fire! 
Vivian Brown 

22 INDIAN VOICE 


INDIAN VOICE 23 





VB AMERICAN ABT 

GEORGE CATLIN ( 1796-1872) A Pennsylvanian by birth and a lawyer by profession, Catlin spent over half his life depicting the American Indian in word and art. Recognized as the Dean of American Indian Painters, he lived among forty-eight tribes. This is what Catlin said about the Indian people: I love a people who have always made me welcome to the best they had ... who are honest without laws, who have no jails and no poor-house ... who never take the name of God in vain ... who worship God without a Bible ... who are free from religious animosities .. . who have never raised a hand against me, or stolen my property ... who never fought a battle with white men exc'ept on their own ground . . . and Oh! How I love a people who don't live for the love of money. 
My friends, I have been asked to. show you my heart. I am glad to have a chance to do so. I want the white people to understand my people. Some of you think an Indian is like a wild animal. This is a great mistake. I will tell you all about our people, and then you can judge whether an Indian is a man or not. I believe much trouble and blood would be saved if we opened our hearts more. I will tell you in my way how the Indian sees things. The white man has more words to tell you how they look to him, but it does not re­quire many words to speak the truth. What I have to say will come from my heart, and I will speak with a straight tongue. Ah-cum-kin-i-ma-me-hut (the Great Spirit)is looking at me, and will hear me. 
My name is In-mut-too-yah-lat-lat 
(Thunder traveling over the Mountains). 
I am chief of the Wal-lam-wat-kin band 
of Chute-pa-lu, or Nez Perces (nose­
pierced Indians). I was born in eastern 
Oregon, thirty-eight winters ago. My 
father was chief before me. When a 
young man, he was called Joseph by 
Mr. Spaulding, a missionary. He died a 
few years ago. There was no stain on · 
his hands of the blood of a white man. 
He left a good name on the earth. He 
advised me well for my people. 

Our fathers gave us many laws, which 
they had learned from their fathers. 
These laws were good. They told us to 
treat all men as they treated us; that 
we should never be the first to break a 
bargain; that it was a disgrace to tell a 
lie; that we should speak only the truth; 
that it was a shame for one man to take 
from another his wife, or his property 
without paying for it. We were taught 
to believe that the Great Spirit sees and 
hears everything, and that he never for­
gets; that hereafter he will give every 
man a spirit-home according to his de­
serts: if he has been a good man, he 
will have a good home; if he has been 
a bad man, he will have a bad home. 
This I believe, and all my people believe 
the same. 

We did not know there were other 
people besides the Indian until about 
one hundred winters ago, when some 
men with white faces came to our coun­
try. They brought many things with 
them to trade for furs and skins. They 
brought tobacco, which was new to us. 
They brought guns with flint stones on 
them, which frightened our women and 
children. Our people could not talk with 
these whitefaced men, but they used 
signs which all people understand. These 
men were Frenchmen, and they called 
our people "Nez Perces," because they 
wore rings in their noses for ornaments. Although very few of our people wear them now, we are still <;alled by the same name. These French· trappers said a great many things to our fathers, which have been planted in our hearts. Some were good for us, but some were bad. Our people were divided in opinion about these men. Some thought they taught more bad than good. An Indian respects a brave man, but he despises a coward. He loves a straight tongue, but he hates a forked tongue. The French trappers told us some truths and some lies. 
The first white men of y01,1r people who came to our country were named Lewis and Clarke. They also brought many things that our people had never seen. They talked straight, and our peo­ple gave them a great feast, as a proof that their hearts were friendly. These men were very kind. They made presents 

HINMATON 
number of white people came 
· country and built houses farms. At first our people made plaint. They thought there wno enough for all to live in pe:s r they were learning many things t, 111d white men that seemed to b;orn But we soon found that the Wh't 
g<>ocL 
· , h I e 
were growmg nc very fast, and greedy to possess everyt~ing the Ind· had. My father was the first throqgh the schemes of the whit and he warned his tribe to be ~ about trading with them. He had picion of men who seemed so aJlXio to make money. I was a boy then, I remember well my father's cauti He had sharper eyes than the r our people. 
Next there came a white officer(G ernor Stevens), who invited all the Perces to a treaty council. After council was opened he made known 
YALATKIT 

(chief joseph) 
<fflO 8-AOl{E 'POJQ3VEI{ 
to our chiefs and our people made pres­ents to them. We had a great many horses, of which we gave them what they needed, and they gave us guns and tobacco in return. All the Nez Perces made friends with Lewis and Clarke, and agreed to let them pass through their country, and never to make war on white men. This promise the Nez Perces have never broken. No white man can accuse them of bad faith, and speak with a straight tongue. It has al­ways been the pride of the Nez Perces that they were the friends of the white men. When my father was a young man there came to our country a white man (Rev. Mr. Spaulding) who talked spirit law. He won the affections of our peo­ple because he spoke good things to them. At first he did not say anything about white men wanting to settle on our lands. Nothing was said about that until about twenty winters a__go, when a 
heart. He said there were a great 
white people in the country, and 
more would come; that he wanted 
land marked out so that the I · 
and white men could be separa 
they were to live in peace it was 
sary, he said, that the Indians h 
have a country set apart for them, 
in that country they must stay. 
ther, who represented his band, 
to have anything to do with the 
cil, because he wished to be a fr~ 
He claimed that no man own 
part of the earth, and a man could 
sell what he did not own. 
Mr. Spaulding took hold of 111 
ther's arm and said "Come and
' . a
the treaty." My father pushed h1dl 
and said: "Why do you ask me to 
away my country? It is your b -to talk to us about spirit mat!e 
not to talk to us about partiDS 
our land." Governor Stevens U 


O• •C 

. n his treaty, but he refused. t)lerto sig ·gn your paper," he said; I .,ill no~ s:e you please, so do I; you 
us0 w ~-Id I am no child; I can not a c :elf. NO man can think for · kfor rnY other home than this. I I have_n O it up to any man. My 
. ot give T k 
n Id have no home.-a e away pie wou I will not touch it with my
ur paper. 
· ·" father left the council. Some of hiefs of the other bands of the Nez ~ signed the treaty, and then Gov­Stevens gave them presents of 
Cfll0£ ts My father cautioned his peo­
e · f " f

take no presents, or a ter a .~ 0 .. he said, "they will claim that 
have accepted pay for your coun­0.. Since that time four bands of the · Perces have received annuities from 
ezUnited States. My father was in­
.ed to many councils, and they tried to make him sign the treaty, but as firm as the rock, and would 
t ign away his home. His refusal used a difference among the Nez Ptrces. Eight years later ( 1863) was the next 

ty council. A chief called Lawyer, use he was a great talker, took the in this council, and sold nearly all ez Perces country. My father was t there. He said to me: "When you into council with the white man, al­remember your country. Do not · it away. The white man will cheat ou out of your home. ,I have taken no from the United States. I have never Id our land." In this treaty Lawyer without authority from our band. He had no right to sell the Wallowa ( inding water) country. That had al­belonged to my father's own peo­and the other bands had never dis­puted our right to it. No other Indians 
claimed Wallowa. In order to have all people under­d how much land we owned, my 
tbcrplanted poles around it and said: 
Insi~e is the home of my people­whue man may take the land out­. Inside this boundary all our peo­
were born. It circles around the · cs of our fathers and we will never 
u h '

n/ t 
~Se graves to any man." 

ugh United States claimed they had · tall the Nez Perces country out-of Lapwai Reservation from Law-
and othe h. f ' .
Ii _r c 1e s, but we continued con this land in peace until eight ~g~, When white men began to w•nside the bounds my father had 
c Warned th · · 

ng, b em agamst this great ut they would not leave our 
land, and some bad blood was raised. The white men represented that we were going upon the war-path. They reported many things that were false. 
The United States Government again asked for a treaty council. My father had become blind and feeble. He could no longer speak for his people. It was then that I took my father's place as chief. In this council I made my ·first speech to white men. I said to the agent who held the council: 
"I did not want to come to this coun­cil, but. I came hoping that we could save blood. The white man has no right to come here and take our country. We have never accepted any presents from the Government. Neither Lawyer nor any other chief had authority to sell this land. It has always belonged to my people. It came unclouded to them from our fathers, and we will def end this land as long as a drop of Indian blood warms the hearts of our men." 
The agent said he had orders, from the Great White Chief at Washington, for us to go upon the Lapwai Reser­vation, and that if we obeyed he would help us in many ways. "You must move to the agency," he said. I answered him: "I will not. I do not need your 
help; we have plenty, and we are con­tented and happy if the white man will let us alone. The reservation is too small for so many people with all their stock. You can keep your presents; we can go to your towns and pay for all we need; we have plenty of horses and cattle to sell, and we won't have any help from you; we are free now; we can go where we please. Our fathers were born here. Here they lived, here they died, here are their graves. We will never leave.them." The agent went away, and we had peace for a little while. 
Soon after this my father sent for me. I saw he was dying. I took his hand in mine. He said: "My son, my body is returning to my mother earth, and my spirit is going very soon to see the Great Spirit Chief. When I am gone, think of your country. You are the chief of these people. They look to you to guide them. Always remember that your father never sold his country. You must stop your ears whenever you are asked to sign a treaty selling your home. A few years more, and white men will be all .around you. They have their eyes on this land. My son, never forget my dying words .. This country holds your father's body. Never sell the bones of 
your father and your mother." I pressed my father's hand and told him I would 
INDIAN VOICE 25 

protect his grave with my life. My father smiled and passed away to the spirit­land . 
I buried him in that beautiful valley ofwinding waters. I love that land more than all the rest of the world. A man who would not love his father's grave is worse than a wild animal. 
For a short time we lived quietly. But this could not last. White men had found gold in the mountains around the land ofwinding water. They stole a great many horses from us, and we could not get them back because we were Indians. The white men told lies for each other. They drove off a great many of our cat­tle so they could claim them. We had no friend who would plead our cause before the law councils. It seemed to me that some of the white men in Wallowa were doing these things on purpose to get up a war. They knew that we were not strong enough to fight them. I la­bored hard to avoid trouble and blood­shed. We gave up some of our country to the white men, thinking that then we could have peace. We were mistaken. The white man would not let us alone. We could have avenged our wrongs many times, but we did not. Whenever the Government has asked us to help them against other Indians, we have never refused. When the white men were few and we were strong we could have killed them all off, but the Nez Perces wished to live at peace. 
If we have not done so, we have not been to blame. I believe that the old treaty has never been correctly reported. If we ever owned the land we own it still, for we never sold it. In the treaty councils the commissioners have claimed that our country had been sold to the Government. Suppose a white man should cop1e to me and say, "Joseph, I like your horses, and I want to buy them." I say to him, "No, my horses 
·suit me, I will not sell them." Then he goes to my neighbor, and says to him: "Joseph has some good horses. I want to buy them, but he refuses to sell." My neighbor answers, "Pay me the money, and I will sell you Joseph's horses." The white man returns to me, and says, "Joseph, I have bought your horses, and you must let me have them." Ifwe sold our lands to the Government, this is the way they were bought. 
On account of the treaty made by the other bands of the Nez Perces, the white men claimed my lands. We were 
(Over) 





CHIEF JOSEPH 

troubled greatly by white men crowding over the line. Some of these were good men, and we lived on peaceful terms with them, but they were not all good. 
Nearly every year the agent came over from Lapwai and ordered us on to the reservation. We always replied that we were satisfied to live in Wallowa. We were careful to refuse the . presents or annuities which he offered. 
Through all the years since the white men came to Wallowa we have been threatened and taunted by them and the treaty Nez Perces. They have given us no rest. We have had a few good friends among white men, and they have always advised my people to bear these taunts without fighting. Our young men were quick-tempered, and I have had great trouble in keeping them from doing rash things. I have carried a heavy load on my back ever since I was a boy. I learned Oten that we were but few, while the white men were many, and that we could not hold our own with them. We_ were like deer. They were like grizzly bears. We had a small country. Their country was large. We were contented to let things remain as the Great Spirit Chief made them. They were not; and 
would change the rivers and mountains 
if they did not suit them. 

Year after year we have been threat­
ened, but no war was made upon my 
people until General Howard came to 
our country two years ago and told us 
that he was the white war-chief of all 
that country. He said: "I have a great 
many soldiers at my back. I am going 
to bring them up here, and then I will 
talk to you again. I will not let white 
men laugh at me the next time I come. 
The country belongs to the Government, 
and I intend to make you go upon the 
reservation." 

I remonstrated with him against bring­
ing more soldiers to the Nez Perces 
country. He had one house full of troops 
all the time at Fort Lapwai. 

The next spring the agent at Umatilla 
agency sent an Indian runner to tell me 
to meet General Howard at Walla Walla. 
I could not go myself, but I sent my 
brother and five other head men to meet 
him, and they had a long talk. 

General Howard said: "You have 
talked straight, and it is all right. You · 
can stay in Wallowa." He insisted that 
my brother and his company should go 
with him to Fort Lapwai. When the 
party arrived there General Howard sent out runners and called all the Indians jn to a grand council. I was in that coun­
cil. I said to General Howard, "We are ready to listen." He answered that he would not talk then, but would hold a council next day, when he would talk plainly. I said to General Howard: "I am ready to talk to-day. I have been in a great many councils, but I am no wiser, We are all sprung from a woman, although we are unlike in many things. We can not be made over again. You are as you were made, and as you were made you can remain. We are just as we were made by the Great Spirit, and you can not change us; thep why should children of one mother and one father quarrel-why should one try to cheat the other? I do not believe that the Great Spirit Chief gave one kind of men the right to tell another kind of men what they must _do." 
General Howard replied: "You deny my authority, do you? You want to dic­tate to me~ do you?" 
Then one of my chiefs-Too-hool­hool-suit-rose in the council and said to General Howard: "The Great Spirit Chief made the world as it is, and as he wanted it, and he made a part of it for us to live upon. I do not see where you get authority to say that we shall 
not live where he placed us." 
General Howard lost his temper and said: "Shut up! I don't want to hear any more of such talk. The law says you shall go upon the reservation to live, and I want you to do so, but you persist in disbbeying the law" (meaning the treaty). "If you do not move, I will take the matter into my own hand, and make you suffer for your disobedience." 
Too-hool-hool-suit answered: "Who are you, that you ask us to talk, and then tell me I sha'n't talk? Are you the Great Spirit? Did you make the world? Did you make the sun? Did you make the rivers to run for us to drink? Did you make the grass to grow? Did you make all these things, that you talk to us as though we were boys? If you did, then you have the right to talk as you do." 
General Howard replied, "You are an impudent fellow, and I will put you in the guard-house," and then ordered a soldier to arrest him. 
Too-hool-hool-suit made no resis­tance. He asked General Howard: "Is that your order? I don't care. I have expressed my heart to you. I have nothing to take back. I have spoken for my cou_ntry. You can arrest me, but 
you can not change me or take back what I have said." 
The soldiers came forward and my friepd and took him to the house. My men whispered arnon selves whether they should let tJ. be done. I counseled them to I knew if we resisted that all th men present, including General R would be killed in a moment would be blamed. IfI had saict'n General Howard would never given another unjust order a · men. I saw the danger, and, w~ dragged T oo-hool-hool-suit top · 
arose and said: "/ am going to now: I don't care whether you me or not." I turned to my people said: "The arrest of T oo-hool-h was wrong, but we will not r insult. We were invited to this to express our hearts, and we have so." Too-hool-hool-suit was priso five davs before_he was released. 
The council broke up for that On the next morning General Ho came to my lodge, and invited go with him and White-Bird and ing-Glass, to look for land for my ple. As we rode· along we came to good land that was already 
by Indians and white people. Howard, pointing to this Ian~ "If you wiB come on to the rese I will give you these lands and these people off." 
I replied: "No. It would be disturb these people. I have no to take their homes. I have never what did not belong to me. I now." 
We rode all day upon the rese and found no good land uno have been informed by men who lie that General Howard sent a that night, telling the soldiers at Walla to go to Wallowa V drive us out upon our return h 
In the council, next day, Howard informed me, in a spirit, that he would give my thirty days to go back home, CO their stock, and move on to the vation, saying, "If you are not that time, I shall consider that yo to fight, and will send my so drive you on." 
I said: "War can be avoided, ought to be avoided. I want My people have always been the of the white man. Why are you a hurrY1'?i I can not get re~dy in thirty days. Our stock 1s 

River is very high. Let us .6'1ake · ·11 be low 
•·. f ll then the nver wi · 
..-,ul _a ; to hunt up our stock and ot um · t " 
pplies for wm er. 

r 5 ° Howard replied, "If you_ let 
1

r3 over one day, the soldiers · e run to drive you on to the res­th:~d all your cattle and ho~ses ·otl~f the reservation at that tiI?e · . to the hands of the white 
f: JI .in w had never so_ld my co~ntry, 
I
had no land mLapwai; but
1 
t want bloodshed. I did not want \e ki°Iled . Some of my people P murdered by white men, and iie-murderers we'i-e never pun­{or it. I told General Howard this, and again said I ~anted no anted the people who lived upo~ 

1
· ds I was to occupy at Lapwai e time to gather their harvest. 
,d in my heart that, rather than ar, I would give up my country. give up my father's grave. I give up everything rather than tile blood of white men upon the 
of my people. 

rat Howard refused to allow me than thirty days to move my peo­their stock. I am sure that he 
to prepare for war .at once. 

This man's blood was bad against white men, and he left the council calling for revenge. 
Again I counseled peace, and I thought the danger was past. We had not complied with General Howard's order because we could not, but we in­tended to do so as soon as possible. I was leaving the council to kill beef for my family, when news came that the young man whose father had been 
killed had gone out with several other hot-blooded young braves and killed four white men. He rode up to the council and shouted: "Why do you sit here like women ? The war has begun 
already." I was deeply grieved. All the lodges were moved except my brother's and my own. I saw clearly that the war was upon us when I learned that my young men had been secretly buying ammunition. I heard then that Too-hool-hool-suit, who had been impris­oned by General Howard, had sue­ceeded in organizing a war-party. I knew that their acts would involve all my people. I saw that the war could not then be prevented. The time had passed. I counseled peace from the be­ginning. I knew that we were too weak 
INDIAN VOICE 27 

men; they had been told by General 
Howard that all their horses and cattle which they had been unable to drive · out of Wallowa were to fall into the 
hands of white men; and, added to all this, they were homeless and desperate. 
I would have given my own life if I could have undone the killing of white men by my people. I blame my young 
. men and I blame the white men. 
blame General Howard for not giving my people time to get their stock away from Wallowa. I do not acknowledge that he had the right to order me to leave Wallowa' at any time. I deny that either my father or myself ever sold 
that land. It is still our land. It may never again be our home, but my father sleeps there~ dnd I love it as I love my mother. I left there, hoping to avoid bloodshed. 
If General Howard had given me plenty of time to gather up my stock, and treated T oo-hool-hool-suit as a man should be treated, there would have been no war. 
My friends among white men have blamed me for the war. I am not to blame. When my young men began the killing, my heart was hurt. Although I 
to fight the United States. We had . did not justify them, I remembered all many grievances, but I knew that war the insults I had endured, and my blood 
nar_.....-_._...._................_......_...._....,.. 
n I returned to Wallowa I found pie very much excited upon dis-g that the soldiers were already 
Wallowa Valley. We held a coun­d decided to move immediately, id bloodshed. _ 

hool-hool-suit, who felt outraged · imprisonment, talked for war, ade many of my young men will-fight rather than be driven like from the land where they were He declared that blood alone wash out the disgrace General rd had put upon him. It required ng heart to stand up against such 
ut I urged my people to be quiet, t to begin a war. gathered all the stock we could 
and made an attempt to move. ft many of our horses and cattle llowa, and we lost several hund~ crossing the river. All of my peo­eded in getting across in safety. of the Nez Perces came together ky Can?n to hold a grand coun­.7ent with all my people. This d lasted ten days. There was a _eat of war-talk, and a great deal Cttement. There was one young :resent_ whose father had been y a white man five years before. 

would bring more. We had good white friends, who advised us against taking the war-path. My friend and brother, Mr. Chapman, who has been with us since the surrender, told us just how the war would end. Mr. Chapman took sides against us, and helped General Howard. I do not blame him for doing so. He tried hard to prevent bloodshed. We hoped the white settlers would not join the soldiers. Before the war com­menced we had discussed this matter all over, and many of my people were in favor of warning them that if they took no part against us they should ·not be molested in the event of war 
being begun by General Howard. This 
plan was voted down in the war-council. 
There were bad men among my peo­ple who had quarreled with white men, and they talked of their wrongs until they roused all the bad hear.ts in the council. Still I could not believe that they would begin the war. I know that my young men did a great wrong, but I ask, Who was first to blame, ? They had been insulted a thousand times; their fathers and brothers had been killed; their mothers and wives had been disgraced; they had been driven to mad­ness by whisky sold to them by white was on fire. Still I would have taken my people to the buffalo country with­out fighting, if possible. 
I could see no other way to avoid a war. We moved over to White Bird Creek, sixteen miles away, and there encamped, intending to collect our stock before leaving; but the soldiers attacked us, and the first battle was fought. We numbered in that battle sixty men, and the soldiers a hundred. The fight lasted but a few minutes, when the soldiers retreated before us for twelve miles. They lost thirty-three killed, and had seven wounded. When an Indian fights, 
he only shoots to kill; but the soldiers shoot at random. None of the soldiers were scalped. We do not believe in scalping, nor in killing wounded men. Soldiers do not kill many Indians un­less they are wounded and left upon the battle-field. Then they kill Indians. Seven days after the first battle, Gen­eral Howard arrived in the Nez Perces country, bringing seven hundred more soldiers. It was now war in earnest. We crossed over Salmon River, hoping General Howard would follow. We were not disappointed. He did follow us, and we got back between him and his sup­plies, and cut him off for three days. 
(Over) 





CHIEF JOSEPH 
He sent out two companies to open the way. We attacked them, killing one officer, two guides, and ten men. 
We withdrew, hoping the soldiers would follow, but they had got fighting enough for that day. They intrenched themselves, and next day we attacked them again. The battle lasted all day, and was renewed next morning. We killed four and wounded seven or eight.. 
About this time General Howard found out that we were in his rear. Five days later he attacked us with three hundred and fifty soldiers and settlers. We had two hundred and fifty warriors. The fight lasted twenty-seven_ 
hours. We lost four killed and several wounded. General Howard's loss was twenty-nine men killed and sixty wounded. 
The following day the soldiers charged upon us,. and we retreated with our families and stock a few miles, leaving eighty lodges to fall into General How­ard's hands. 
Finding that we were outnumbered, we retreated to Bitter Root Valley. Here another body of soldiers came upon us and demanded our surrender. We re­fused. They said, "You can not get by 
us." We answered, ~'We are going by you without fighting if you will let us, but we are going by you anyhow." We then made a treaty with these soldiers. We agreed not to molest any one, and they agreed that we might pass through the Bitter Root country in peace. We bought provisions and traded stock with white men there. 
We understood that there was to be no more war. We intended to go peace­ably to the buffalo country, and leave the question of returning to our coun­try to be settled afterward. 
With this understanding we traveled on for four days, and thinking that the trouble was all over, we stopped and prepared tent-poles to take with us. We started again, and at the end of two· days we saw three white men pass­ing our camp. Thinking that peace had been made, we did not molest them. We could have killed or taken them prisoners, but we did not suspect them of being spies, which they were. 
That night the soldiers surrounded our camp. About daybreak one of my men went out to look after his horses. The soldiers saw him and shot him down like a coyote. I have since learned that these soldiers were not those we had left behind. They had come upon us from another direction. The new white war-chiefs name was Gibbon. He charged upon us while some of my people were still asleep. We had a hard fight. Some of my men crept around and attacked the soldiers from the rear. In this battle we lost nearly all our lodges, but we finally drove General Gibbon back. 
Finding that he was not able to cap­ture us, he sent to his camp a few miles away for his big guns (cannons), but my men had captured them and all the ammunition. We damaged the big guns all we could, and carried away the pow­der and lead. In the fight with General Gibbon we lost fifty women and chil­dren and thirty fighting men. We re­mained long enough to bury our dead. The N ex Perces never make war on women and children; we could have killed a great many women and chil­dren while the war lasted, but we would feel ashamed to do so cowardly an act. 
We never scalp our enemies, but wh-en General Howard came up and joined General Gibbon, their Indian scouts dug up our dead and scalped them. I have been told that General Howard did not order this great shame to be done. 
~ 

We retreated as rapidl toward the buffalo coun~ as days General came closet~· went out and attacked hi US, tured nearly all his ho m,
rses an.a 

(about two hundred and fifi&&\I We then marched on t hty stone Basin. 0 t e 
On the way we captured 
0 

man and two white wom leased them at the end of~~ They we~e treated kindly. The were not msulted. Can the White tell me of one time when I d" 
. niaa 

en were taken pnsoners, and he days and then released with 
. 0 
msulted? Were the Nez Pe 
en who fell into the hands f 
Howard's soldiers treated wi~b 
respect 7I deny that a Nez p 
ever gmlty of such a crime 
A few. days later we ~pt 

more white men. One of thern 
horse and escaped. We gave 
a poor horse and told him he 
Nine days' march brought mouth of Clarke's Fork of the ~fone. We did not know what come of General Howard, but posed that he had sent for mo and mules. He did not come 




J~OOb VALLEY 
~ /3~ Iii' SEE SAVAGE
-IN9IANS 
CJ:-c 1f/fil_. O"' THt WARPATH ~ STEAL .\NI) PLUN[)fR 0 THE W.. ITl:-MANSI LANI> 
w war-chief(General Sturgis) ~ er ne We held him in check w bile .-eked rII our women and children 
rnovek aut of danger, leaving a few 
_.A stOC O 
...., ver our retreat. to er days passed, and we heard ~e;aof General Howard, or Gib­
n r Sturgis. We had repulsed each 0 nd began to feel secure, when tuJ11; aarrnY, under General Miles, This was the fourth army,
k us. d f' h
f which outnumbere our ig t­r° ce that we had encountered
,or , . · sixty days. e had no knowledge ~f General 
• , army until a short time. before 5de a charge upon us, cuttmg our ":in two, and capturing nearly all our horses. About seventy men, m.y­among them, were cut off. My ht­ctaughter, twelve years of age, was · me. I gave her a rope, and told to catch a horse and join the others were cut off from the camp. I not seen her since, but I have 
that she is alive and well. 

I thought of my wife and children, were now surrounded by soldiers, I resolved to go to them or die. 
itb a prayer in my mouth to the Great · 't Chief who rules above, I dashed 
ed through the line of soldiers. med to me that there were guns ery side, before and behind me. clothes were cut to pieces and my was wounded, but I was not hurt. . Ireached the door of my lodge, my handed me my rifle, saying: "Here's 
gun. Fight!" The. oldiers kept up a continuous 
• IX of my men were killed in one near me. Ten or twelve soldiers into our camp and got posses-of two lodges, killing three Nez and losing three of their men fell inside our lines. I called m; to drive them back. We fought at range, not more than twenty steps 
an~ d~ove the soldiers back upon ..::m hne, leaving their dead in .d_s. We secured their arms and ~ hon. We lost, the first day and ~igh~een men and three women. Miles lost twenty-six killed and ?Unded. The following day Gen­
1
1es sent · 

under prota t~essenger i?to my 
. ec ion of a white flag.111 y fnend Yellow Bull to meet 

Bull und

that Ge erst~od the messenger th ?eral Miles wished me to to ki~ :uation; that he did not Y people unnecessarily. 
Yellow Bull understood this to be a de­mand for me to surrender and save blood. Upon reporting this message to me, Yell ow Bull said he wondered whether General Miles was in earnest. I sent him back with my answer, that I had not made up my mind, but would think about it and send word soon. A little later he sent some Cheyenne scouts with another message. I went out to meet them. They said they believed that General Miles was sincere and really wanted peace. I walked on to General Miles's tent. He met me and we shook hands. He said, "Come, let 
us sit down by the fire and talk this 
matter over." I remained with him all 
night; next morning Yellow Bull came 
over to see if I was alive,·and why I 
did not return. 
General Miles would not let me leave the tent to see my friend alone. 
Yell ow Bull said to me: "They have got you in their power, and I am afraid they will never let you go again. I have an officer in our camp, and I will hold him until they let you go free." 
I said: "I do not know what they 
mean to do with me, but if they kill 
me you must not kill the officer. It will 
do no good to avenge my death by 
killing him." 
Yell ow Bull returned to my camp. I did not make any agreement that day with General Miles. The battle was re­newed while I was with him. I was very anxious about my people. I knew that we were near Sitting Bull's camp in King George's land, and I thought may­be the Nez Perces who had escaped would return with assistance. No great damage was done to either party during the night. 
On the following morning I returned to my camp by agreement, meeting the officer who had been held prisoner in my camp at the flag of truce. My people were divided about surrendering. We could have escaped from Bear Paw Mountain if we had left our wounded, old women, and children behind. We were unwilling to do this. We had never heard of a wounded Indian recovering while in the hands of white men. 
On the evening of the fourth day General Howard came in with a small escor-t, together with my friend Chap­man. We could now talk understand­ingly. General Miles said to me in plain words, "If you will come out and give up your arms, I will spate your lives and send you !o your reservation." I 
INDIAN VOICE 29 

do not know what passed between Gen­
eral Miles and General Howard. 
I could not bear to see my wounded 
men and women suffer any longer; we 
had lost enough already. General Miles. 
had promised that we might return to 
our own country with what stock we 
had left. I thought we could start again. 
I believed General Miles, or I never 
would have surrendered. I have heard 
that he has been censured for making 
the promise to return us to Lapwai. He 
could not have made any other terms 
with me at that time. I would have held 
him in check until my friends came to 
my assistance, and then neither of the 
generals nor their soldiers would have 
ever left Bear Paw Mountain alive. 
On the fifth day I went to General 
Miles and gave up my gun, and said, 
"From where the sun now stands I will 
fight no more." My people needed rest 
-we wanted peace. 
I was told we could go with General 
Miles to Tongue River and stay there 
until spring, when we would be sent 
back to our country. Finally it was de­
cided that we were to be taken to Ton­
gue River. We had nothing to say about 
it. After our arrival at Tongue River, 
General Miles received orders to take 
us to Bismarck. The reason given was, that subsistence would be cheaper there. 
General Miles was opposed to this order. He said: "You must not blame me. I have endeavored to keep my word, but the chief who is over me has given the order, and I must obey it or resign. That would do you no good. Some other officer would carry out the order." 
I believe General Miles would have kept his word if he could have done so. I do not blame him for what we have suffered since the surrender. I do not know who is to blame. We gave up all our horses-over eleven hundred-and all our saddles-over one hundred­artd we have not heard from them since. Somebody has got our horses. 
General Miles turned my people over to another soldier, and we were taken to Bismarck. Captain Johnson, who now had charge of us, received an order to take us to Fort Leavenworth. At Leavenworth we were placed on a low river bottom, with no water except river-water to drink and cook with. We had always lived in a healthy coun­try, where the mountains were high and the water was cold and clear. Many of my people sickened and died, and we buried them in this strange land. I 
(See Page 37) 
30 INDIAN VOICE 

The old man sat beneath the branches 
ofthe lone oak wailing, and as he wailed 
memories from long ago returned to 
haunt his mind. As the hot tears ran 
down his old cheeks, cheeks which were 
beginning to sag, he remember~d that 
day in the country far to the north 
when the great chief Black Hawk had 
come to visit him in his village. His 
mind forced him to recall the words 
that the aging Black Hawk had used 
to try to persuade the old man to join 
him on the warpath. 

"I was born at the Sac village. I spent my childhood, youth and manhood there. The grave of my father is there, and those of some of my children. I thought to live there until time to lay these old bones down beside the bones of those who were dear to me, but the white men tell me now that I must leave my home, that I must move to the west, that I may no longer look upon this land that I love or the graves of my father and children. 
"In time, they will say this to you, too. They will tell you to leave the com fields and hunting grounds of your youth. The white farmers will plow the graves of your fathers. You and your people will be driven toward the setting sun. You will be told to find a new home. 
"We have always been brothers, you and I. We fought side by side in the British war. We have hunted together and slept under the same blanket. We have met at council and at religious feasts. Our people are alike and their interests are the same." 
The old man knew that Black Hawk did not lie, but he had decided at the end of the British war that he would no longer fight with white people. Black Hawk was right, of course, in speaking about the old days-life had been very good then before the white men arrived. The white men had brought many use­ful things-steel knives and tomahawks, guns and bullets, even the horse-yet the Indian had got on well without them before. Life had been better then. 
Black Hawk was right, but those times were gone and the white men were there. The old man resolved that he would not fight. He believed that it was inevitable that his people would be over­come by the invader and that the best thing for them would be to remain at peace and to help the whites whenever it was in their power to do so. Perhaps then the whites would not force him and his people to leave their homes as they were doing to Black Hawk and the Sacs-as they had done to so many others. And so he refused Black Hawk. 
And he not only refused Black Hawk, but he suggested to the great chief that he, himself, should give up his plans of going to war as hopeless and quietly move with his people to the west as they had been told to do by the white soldiers. And later, when he saw that Black Hawk was taking his warriors on the warpath in spite of the advice he had given him, the old man and his sons rode many miles and many hours carrying warnings to all the white set­tlers who were in the way of Black Hawk's wrath and would otherwise have almost certainly been killed by the angry Sacs. 
All the white people were grateful to the old fat chief. One of his white friends said to him one day, "Old man, you've chosen the right path. You stick with us and things will go well for you. You'll have warm clothes to wear in winter, guns and ammunition for hunting, whiskey to drink." 
Here the long, thin farmer paused for breath and moistened his lips with three quick flicks of his tongue. 
"Those others," he continued, "those bad Injuns, they'll be driven west. No one can stop our army, and you know · the old saying, If you can't lick 'em­join 'em." 
And the farmer was not alone in his praise for the old man. The citizens of the nearest small white settlement to the old man's village, after Black Hawk had been defeated, were so grateful to him that they asked him i t a ceremony in his hono/ ~ to\\'n fi him much whiskey and m~ h hey 
. C fon.1 
presented h1m. with thirty sil "" which they had collected amver do selves and a tin cup with a le ~hngt tied to its handle so that he a er t 
· f h' COU)d
1t rom 1s saddle and carry . 
. h h' T It a
wit 1m. hat way he would 
be welcome to stop by their h al 
0 

get a drink from their wells ~ 
old man was pleased and pro.ud nd of the white t:armers thought of.him a personal f n end and were pl 
h. CilScd
have 1m stop by for a visit d cause he valued their estee~ ~n careful not to do anything that e offend them. He never drank f 
h. , ro 
w 1te man s cup nor slept in hi h even if invi~ed, and these habit f 0 endeared him to the whites. Th gan to call him "the good Indian, he was proud of what he had done cause he was known and loved by man and red man alike, and he knew that it had been best for people. Black Hawk's Sacs had moved like cattle to a place far a in the west. He was pleased. 
But then something happened puzzled the old man a great deal. government men came to the villag day and told him that all of hi would have to move to Kansa . told him that they would like for there was abundant game there plenty of room and not so many people yet. They said that the Sa had been moved to Kansas were happy there. The old man did not derstand why his people, who 



LONE 

white settlers of Black ..-"1l the k and thereby saved their
f/lJ':;.. attac
ft'ks being moved to the same wer:e bad Indians who had gone as ~t did not matter. Th~y. must 
fit!· overnment men said, but,
the g h d f 

. the government a not or­saidh t a great service the old man 0 "' af r the whites. They had not 
done O " d I d · " 
their friend the goo n 1an, tten ve it to him they had set to pr~ections of land for him to 
two.th his family for the rest of 
on w1 · life d d " 
· hite men do not un erstan , 
~ :an thought, "they have not 0 me but they do not urrder­
tten , . f
hat it cannot be good for a ch1e t ·n in comfort at the home of his

fClll8l d .
while his people are nven to a land far to the west. I will go ~y people," he thought, "to com­them and help them make homes this new land. Still, it is good that ve helped the white man, for if I nothing else I still have the respect the white and of the red man, and least I will be able to come back here the land which they have left for me visit my old home from time to 
They went west-to Kansas. And they 
very unhappy in Kansas. It was and it was dry and dusty. There no trees, and there was very little 
r. And there were white people. It not as the government men had · it would be. When the people were as much as they could be in this land, the old man went home · two sections for a visit. His old · friends were very glad to see him be carried his own cup, and when . invited him to spend the night at homes he very readily agreed and pread his blanket on the ground yard and slept outside all night His trips back to his old home 
more and more frequent for he very unhappy in Kansas. 
Then one time after he had been in . !~r a very long time without Visited his old home he became
h . ' 
ornesick. He wanted to see the here he had spent his childhood outh and his manhood and hJ 
tO ' 

th see the grave of his father ose of his sons who had died old He_ also wanted to visit some of White friends for it did his heart 

to kn h

Ind _ow t at they remembered · still loved him for the great Ibis ~e had done them in the past.· fe, When he reached his two ho land after a long and hard e was barely able to recognize 
it. Where there had been great and 
beautiful trees there was nothing but 
flat plowed land, and there was a fence 
all the way around it. He had some dif­
ficulty, but he was able to locate the 
spot where the graves of his father and 
of his sons had been. It, too, was 
plowed under. He was still weeping 
when a red faced and bearded farmer 
whom he had never seen before came 
running up and cursing him. 
"Git offa my land you Goddamned 
savage." 
It was with great difficulty that the old man restrained himself from mur­dering the white man, but he had long practised restraint in connection with white men, and he left the farm. In town he learned that he had been gone from his land so long that the govern­ment had decided to sell it at public auction. It was no longer his. Now he · had no place left in the world except Kansas. He turned around and made the long trip back west with a heavy 
heart. 
One day the old man and his last 
remaining son were riding out of the 
village on the Kansas reservation to 
hunt. They carried shiney Winchesters 
and rode proudly erect. Not far from 
the village, but out of sight of it, they 
approached a point where the plains be­
gan to slightly roll. They were just be­
ginning to ride toward the top of a rise 
on the slant of which grew a lone oak. 
It was the only tree in sight. As the old 
man and his son rode past the tree four 
Sac Indians on foot suddenly appeared 
from the far side of the rise. Each had 
a bow in his hand, the string already 
drawn, arrow in place. The two riders 
quickly raised their rifles, but before 
they could take aim the four arrows 
were released. The old man fired, kill­
ing one of the Sacs as the other three 
prepared again to fire. He killed one 
more before that one could release a 
second arrow, but the other two got off 
their shots, then turned to run. The old man started to pursue them, but he suddenly stopped his horse. He had · realized that only he had been firing back at the Sacs. He turned quickly in the saddle to look for his son, and there, just down the slope a ways, the old man saw the last of his children, his torso stuck through with six painted and feathered shafts which held him, his feet as far from the ground as if he were still astride his mount, pinned to the 
trunk of the lone oak. 
by RobertJ. Conley 

INDIAN VOICE 31 


JUST PUBLISHED! 



"LOST FACE OF CORNHUSK DOLL" by 
Everett Parker (Two Arrows) 

and Oledoska 

To receive your FIRST EDITION hardcover copy of the epic, "The Lost Face of Cornhusk Doll,,, fill in the coupon below and send $7.25 ($6.95 price plus 30¢ mailing and handling) to: Native American Publishing Co., 
P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, Calif., 95051. Book contains over 200 pages and is illustrated. 
As an. additional bonus, you'll re­ceive absolutely free, a 28-page book­let, "Authentic Proverbs of American Indians," by Robert Meigs. Quantities of this mimeographed booklet are limited so HURRY! Fill out the cou­pon and enclose check or money order toda ! 
Please mail to: Native American\Publishing Co. P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, California 95050. 
• • a a I • e I I I 
I am enclosing a check D money order D 

NAME -----------~ STREET ~---------­
CITY -----------­
STATE -----------~ 
ZIP--------­





32 INDIAN VOICE 



BACK ISSUES 
• • • 1n• case you 
missed us 
Now you can bring your IND/AN VO/Cf collection up-to date or order additional back copies for your friends by completing this handy order blank. All copies 75¢ each available only while , supplies last. 
Clip and Mail 


'71 Month No. of of Issue Copies 
March April May June July/Aug._ Sept./Oct. _ Nov. Dec./Jan. 
Total 
Issues__ 

x75¢ 
Price 
Total 
Price __ 
Please mail to: 
Native American Publishing Co. P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, California 95050 
I am enclosing a check D money order D 

NAME ________ ___ STREET ___________ 
CITY 

STATE ----------­
ZIP 

Clip and mail · I 
-~---------· ---~---J 
PEGYOCJ'E 
Just recently I was fortunate to at­tend a genuine Indian PEYOTE MEET­ING, the religion American Indians have termed the NATIVE AMERICAN CHURCH. It is a religious ceremony parallel to any religious ceremony I have witnessed, ref erring to all the churches of Jesus Christ. In my obser­vation I have seen nothing of ill mean­. ings or so-called pagan type of worship. The Native American Church which I refer to as a "Teepee Meeting" is a Ceremony governed by extreme disci­pline and a high order of worship. All the songs and · prayers, offerings, are directed to the "Great Spivi" asking Him for blessings upon the ill and un­fortunate as well as the poor people of 
all races. 

The Teepee Meeting is an all-night 
vigil. The individual Indian, thinking 
man, should sacrifice one whole night 
in worship to the Great Spirit, Maker 
of All Things, the green things and all 
things that walk; he should set aside 
one night in payment of life, the con­
sciousness that he lives. 

The peyote cactus is believed to have 
originated in Old Mexico and in the 
last 300 years to have found its way 
to the Great Southest and to the 
Southern and Northern Plains tribes. 
It was and is thought of by individuals 
who use it to be personally blessed by 
the Great Spirit to give healing powers 
for any kind of sickness, psychological 
or physical. In other words, it was the 
Indian's all-purpose medicine. Recent 
theories have produced information that 
the Plains Tribes used it to migrate 
great distances without replinishing 
themselves with food or water, not for 
days, but for weeks! 

In the Peyote Meeting, the peyote's 
place is to bring the users into that 
state of consciousness which is the 
nearest to Wakonda (Great Spirit). The 
peyote cactus bonds the two 
God. The man to see himseU: 
to see his other kind, to ~ 
why circumstances arises and ill 
tions have to present themse 
only in his life but in others also. 
The Ceremony consists of 25 
members. A good peyote practi · 
good religious reputation is ap 
as Leader of the Meeting. He 
elderly gentleman. He governs 
rituals performed there in the 
such as appointing someone to 
pray. The Leader has a helper, 
Second Man. The Fire Man is 
ble for maintaining the fire all 
From sundown to sunrise the fue 
dwindles or goes out, and is 
extremely neat order with no 
blowing around inside. 
The ceremony begins aro 
p.m. The participants all line front of the teepee door. A long is issued before entering. Inside pee there is a half moon made sand; before morning it will the keeper of the fire will dis where it originated. All the pray. They pray for things of 
· illness, prosperity, happiness, for 
anything that is their probl 
pray that when they emerge in 
ing the peyote prayers will s 
them, or heal them and theirs. 
Each member entering the h temple has his best dress on cloth wrap, red and blue, red Some of the broadcloths ha decorations bordering the sid~ has his peyote feathers and tie made of fancy beadwork.. dividual dresses at his own the way he. will present himself er and song to Wakonda. 
When the members enter they go in left and circle to 
(See PageJ9T­


BRAZIL 
(from Page 9) 

. for the predictions o_f an t,asis Robin Hanbury-Temson, 
· tunan, tives will be wiped out
all the na 
t IO years.

February, and March of 10 Jan~:~ry-Tenison traveHed exten­1 I Ha the interior of the country, over y of the remaining tribes. 
. . rnan "Th I
ed . a formal report, e n­tf Br:il," (The Primitive_ P:oples0 London, 1971), t~at withm ten this last 50,000 natt~es "":'ould be t if the present situation con­
ou ' .. d h

(The areas ~e v1S1te are s ow_n the rnap of Bra_zil.) To prev~nt this ·ng he suggested a massive pro­:C a~cultural training and_ medi­ueatrnent for th~ strange diseases 
t in by the white man. 

8. suggestions j,aralle~e~ the sug­. ns of a team from the Interna­l Red Cross, also from Europe, ich visited the country in May ugh August of 1970. But while the Cross report tended to be a white­of the actions of the new FUNAI, bury-Tenison's tended to stress the cy of the situation. "There is no bt at all that unless greatly in­aid, including international fi­. l and technical assistance and · , is brought to bear on the prob-few if any of the still uncontacted recently contacted Indians of Bra-
will survive," he stated. any of the tribes living in the jun­of Brazil have never seen a white 
They live by farming, hunting, · g, and gathering. But their farm­. a special kind-called slash and agriculture because sections of the are burned off to make new in small patches-and is especial­
~pted to the peculiarities of the m that area. A piece of land being used for two or three years: to become unusable and this is usually completed 'within five of the time it is cleared. It be­..unusa_ble because of a process 
leaching," by which the heavy ~U 80 ?r 90 inches a year, leaches nutnents out of the soil all the 
Us d . ' 
an plant life, and the soil be-very hard. The Indians know ~nd do not stay in one spot to 

D •. or very long 
uut the B ·1: 
· · . raz1 ian government is 
g 10 

settlers from the North­. ly ~art of the country, which is c?ming overcrowded and set-
the
m1n th ' 
e Amazon region. These 
INDIAN VOICE 33 


(Photo by Ata Kanda) 

a member of the Piaroa tribe 


settlers are supposed to clear the land arid fa~m it. They use the European methods of farming, of course, settling in one place with the intention of stay­ing there, and are very bitter and frus­trated at the end of a few years when they are forced to move because of the leaching. For this reason they are fast becoming a new threat to the native population. They kill almost Indians as many as the big company developers. 
Many of the 143 tribes still living in the interior have yet to see the new white men who are moving into their areas. Of the 143 tribes still left, 33 have not yet been contacted. They are known to exist because of reports from other natives, or from aerial observa­tions of them. About 27 of the 143 have intermittent contact with the out­side world, 45 have permanent contact, and 38 are to some degree integrnted into the daily life of the country. 
Both the Red Cross and Hanbury­Tenison took as a given that the Bra­zilian government's plans to develop the region were not open to change. They overlooked the leaching phenomenon, and both took for granted that it was the destiny of the Portugese whites to overrun the Brazilian continent. With this attitude it is not surprising that the most humane thing they could sug­gest to do was to place the Indians on reservations, teach them the white man's agriculture, and give them the white­man's education. And this is undoubted­ly what will happen. 
There are several things wrong with this approach. This experiment in social change has been tried in the United States for some time, and it has not worked. For the same experiment to be tried in Brazil, with little knowledge of the U. S. experience and failure with Indians, is nothing short of tragic. And for most of the native Indians it means death. 
As the Red Cross report pointed out, the natives of Amazonia live in tune with their environment; they have adapted well, and their way of life ifts in well with their surroundings. The 
(Over) 
BRAZIL 
(Continued) 

government of Brazil wants to change this way of life, and further wants to make European farmers out of the In­dians. The Red Cross report and Han­bury-Tenisort's both advocate this ap­proach also. But neither one takes into account the leaching process and the 
· effects this will have on the attempt at developing white man's farming among the native people. From the experiments that have been tried with the same type of soil in other parts of South America it is apparent that the white-man static farming approach will not work in the jungles of the Amazon. And when the attempt fails, the people who will have attempted it will become displaced per­sons, in effect. 
The native way of life will be com­pletely destroyed if the Brazilian govern­ment's plan of action is fully imple­mented. The government looks on the interior area of Amazonia as being a threat to the internal security of the country because of the Indians living there, and as an external threat because the western part of the country lying along the Amazon River is largely un­settled by whites and unprotected from attack by a foreign invader. 
.' To remedy this situation, the govern­.ment plans to build 18 highways criss­crossing Amazonia, and to make the land, timber, and minerals easily ac­cessible to settlers and developers. Also included in this package plan is the in­tent of the government to claim 60 miles on each side of the roads as gov­ernment land, much as was done with the building of the Southern Pacific railroad in the U. S. This plan would take 88,000 square miles of native land from the natives, and would mean that those natives already living on the land would have to be relocated. The plan is to relocate them on reserves and to teach them to farm like the white man, and to give them formal education. But as has been the case in the U. S., the government has no commitment to following through on the plan of ac­culturation; the budget of the Indian agency, FUNAI, is small, and the staff is ill-trained. The results of this experi­ment will no doubt meet with less suc­cess than the similar attempt in the U.S. 
But the followup plans do not worry the generals in Brasilia, the new capital. Their only worry is getting to the land and the resources and opening them up for exploitation. 
The reservation plan is not the work of the government; it came about as the result of efforts by two brothers, Orlando and Claudio Villas-Boas, who were nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize last year. As a result of 25 years of effort by the Villas-Boas brothers, the Xingu National Park, the most suc­cessful Indian reserve in the country, was established, and the Xingu tribe was relocated there. Today the re­serve is inhabited by 1500 survivors of 15 tribes, and is threatened with being changed from reserve status; the government is building one of the main new roads, BR-80, through the of the reserve, completely d the original intent of makin es. serve, n_amely, that it woulJ it 

unexploited by t~e white man. as Hanbury-Temson points 
· f OU

very ex1stenc~ o the park has tacked as bemg 'prejudicial t curity and development of tho try. '" . The .genera1s m · Brasiliae the tnbal hfe of Indians bro and will app~rently attempt to at any cost m human lives 
(See Next Page) ? 

RESERVES AND TRIBES VISITED B HANBURY-TENSION 
BRAZIL 

-Campo Grande Rio de J 
\_........ / 
\, / Sao Paulo SOUTHERN MATO 
-aRosso/ ­


is attitude has its parallels at . th e u s. today. rt in th · also carry around the
15
genera h I d.

'Jbe . h ·r heads that t e n ians 
uon in t ~~r have no' right to the Inten they do not use it and 
1,ecause . Id 
. .t like the white man wou . I me over from Europe on id~a :ich brought John Winth­1,oa founder of the Massachusetts the y and was preceded by the 
Co1on , I (V

ders of the Jamestown co_ on~ Irf ''. . To justify the colomzat10n o 
).chusetts, which was akcommf~r­enture intended to ma e pro its the work of serfs who would be 
ught in and who "'.ould work the ken from the Indians, the found­ta rted that the Indians had no
t:the land because they did not permanent villages and farm it 
. h"

European style. And the rest 1s 1s­
. the founders of the colony pro­to take the land from the In­and to build the colony. The of the United States came in simi­
hion. The same idea is prevalent in Brazil 
. In October of 1970, the Presi­t of Brazil sent a· message to the ngress calling for a clarification of position of the government's posi­with regard to Indians. In the ge, the President indicated he learned his lessons well from the . : it was made clear that the status the Indian in Brazil was to be that rd, with the government as the rdian, as long as the Indian is not · ilated into the national life of the ntry as a tribe or as an individual. as wards. of the government, as the U.S., the Indians will have no . re~t rights. They cannot press m court, and most importantly, cannot protest the actions of their rdian," the federal government ugh its Indian arm, FUNAI, the agency which oppresses them 
t. 

nd this point is very important for future of the Indian people in Bra­In the same month that the mes­
Was sent to Congress (it is being the Statute of the Indian) the 
rn ' 
. mental agency charged with de­

J:g the interior of the country, M, the Superintendency for the
1

opment of the Amazon signed a tract 'Yith FUNAI for h;lf a mil­~~iros (about $100 000) for the 
•cation" f · ' 
o Indians along the ~-Cuiaba road, one the main 

Dati;:s the planned network. ~il!~e have already had their civil 
INDIAN VOICE 35 




(Photo by Ata Kanda) 
(Over) 

BRAZIL 

and legal rights taken away by govern­
ment, they are already prevented from 
objecting to any actions of the federal 
government-and of course the gov­
ernment is determined to develop the 
country, and get the Indians out of the 
way. 
The Statute of the Indian is not 
law yet. Some groups in Brazil, notably 
the Villas-Boas brothers, have fought 
against its passage; and many groups 
in Europe, alerted by the 1968 reports 
of genocide (which found few outlets 
in the U. S. press, incidentally), have 
brought much unfavorable publicity 
for the Brazilian government on the 
continent. But the Statute is still pend­
ing, and if passed would take away 
the rights of the Indians explicitly. 
The model the law is based on is 
almost identical to the so-called "as­
similationist" model perpetrated on the 
Indians of the U. S. over 100 years 
ago. Under this model, the Indian, as 
long as he is an Indian, has no rights. 
He is a ward of the government, and 
the declared intent of the government 
is to remake him as an individual, to 
change him from an Indian into a 
white man. This intent is stated in Ar­
ticle One of the Statute, which says 
that the purpose of the proposed act 
is to "integrate them into the national 
community." This objective appears ten 
times in the document, and it makes 
clear that the government wants the 
Indians to stop being Indians and start 
being Brazilians, so they can share 
their lands and resources with the rest 
of the Brazilians. 
They would especially share these 
resources with the people of the North­
east, who live in conditions of pover­
ty, hunger and oppression in a net­
work of agricultural tietdoms. The sit­
uation in the Northeast is a powder­
keg because of overcrowding and hun­
ger, and the military rulers fear that 
unless something is done, the people 
may explode in a revolution. The In­
dians would also share their resources 
with the foreign investors. 
The solution is to relocate the people of the Northeast into the interior, Ama­zonia, and to give them land to farm. This land is not regarded by the gov­ernment as belonging to the Indians; under the governmental scheme, Indians living in the tribal state have no rights to land. Indian lands are regarded as "free and unoccupied territory open to conquest and colonization" according to the Declaration of Barbados, made . by a group of anthropologists meeting 
under the auspices of the World Coun­cil of Churches in January of 1971. As they stated, forced migrations, mas­sacres, and the destruction of abori­ginal culture are the products of this type of thinking, and they deplored the carrying out of this type of policy. Those Indians who aren't killed or who don't die of disease in the coloni­zation movement are to have their rights taken away from them com­pletely, and are to be made over into white men. 
According to other sections of the Statute, Indians will be allowed to keep their indigenous rights-hunting, fish­ing, and horticulture-and these rights are regarded as belonging to them. But the real wealth of the interior, the min­erals and forest resources of timber, are forbidden to the Indian, and de­clared to be a part of the wealth of the nation, an inalienable part of the na­tional patrimony. The income from these two sources is forbidden to the Indian, and rents and income from them does not accrue to the Indian, but goes instead to the maintenance and upkeep of the Indian's "protector," the FUNAI. In other words, FUNAI will become like the Bureau of Indian Affairs in the United States, being sup­ported from the resources rightfully be­longing to the Indian, and supposedly protecting him and educating him to the white man's ways. And also like the Bureau of Indian Affairs, FUNAI is expected to act as a go-between for the federal government, so that rela­tions with Indians can be handled as smoothly as possible in the develop­ment of the interior. 
The real role of FUNAI is explained by Article 35, however. This Article, one of the most clearly stated and ex­tensive sections of the law, empowers the President with the right to physi­cally relocate Indian tribes for reasons of "national security" or "national de­velopment," if one of five conditions exists: 
1) a fight between Indian tribes 
2) serious epidemics which could ex­terminate the tribe 
3) any evil which might jeopardize the integrity of a tribe 
4) any impositions to national se­curity 
5) the necessity for regional develop­ment, having in view the higher na­tional interests. 
The last point, of course, gives away the real reasons for establishing the Statute in the first place. The economic interests want to develop the resources of the area, and they are the ones who 

placed the ideas for the Stat Indian into the heads of thU in Brasilia. e 
There are serious conflict . ministrative setup of India: 111 well. T?e agen~y that is char protecting the interests of th FUNAI, is also the agenc e with building the 13,000 kit! roads that are to criss-cross th And as one reporter in Rio : FUNAl's major role will be the Indians out of the way for velopers to come in. 
The Villas-Boas brothers years of effort, succeeded 'in the Xingu National Park es as an Indian reserve. "In spite opposition by the Villas-Boas who fought a 25-year battle this reserve established," one noted, "the segment of new i made the northern boundary reserve, thus cutting off a g tion of the original territory. this move was made, the re been left untouched, and was as the most successful attempt serving some of the original life natives. General Frederico Ro so-called specialist in Indian stated that the road will o benefits to the Indians since it celerate the process of integra 
Sadly, the list ofcompaniesin in Brazilian development reads road map of American ind Swift Meats, U. S. Steel, Steel, Hanna Mining, Alcoa, Pacific, Armour Packing. Of tribes left in the interior, about this writing have had little or tack with outsiders. But with roads being built, to be compl 1975, all of them will feel the of Western civilization before of the decade. And all will feel the effects of the taking home lands, the attempted d . of their way of life, and their removal to make way for the and settlers. 
Our brothers, we will pray for 

(Written by Dean C~avell Marie-Helene Laraque, with dous assists from articles and by Terence Turner, Sheldon Robin Hanbury-Tenison, beiro, and others. Marie-Hele que is in the proce~s. of p meeting on the Brazihan situ; interested, contact her at 2~ Avenue, Berkeley, Ca. 94? ' 415-642-6717.) 
:)41[ 
cJIJEF JOSEPH 
(from Page 29) 

ll how much my heart suf­,ot te eople while at Leaven-for rnJr!'at Spirit Chief who rules 'fhe d to be looking some other 
seerne b.
and did not see what was emg to rnY people. 

. the hot days (July, 1878) weP!'""!otice that we were to be moved away from our own cou!1t.ry. re not asked if we were w111. mg We were ordered to get mto iai)road-cars. Three of my . people Oil the way to Baxter Spnngs. It rse to die there than to die fight­
"° .
the rnountams. . ewere moved fr?m Baxt~r S pnngs 
) to the Irid1an_Territory, and doWll without our lodges. We had little medicine; and we were nearly 
· . Seventy of my people have since we moved ·there._ . . e have had a great many v1s1tors bave talked many ways. Some of 
chiefs (General Fish and Colonel ) from Washington came to 
and selected land for us to live We have not moved to that land, is not a good place to live. Commissioner Chief (E. A. Hayt) to see us. I told him, as I told 
one, that I expected Gener~l 

• word would be carried out. He · it •could not be done; that white now lived in my country and all IIDd was taken up; that, ifl returned allowa, I could not live in peace; law-papers were out against my men who began the war, and the Government could not protect people." This. talk fell like a heavy upon my heart. I saw that I could pin anything by talking to him. law chiefs (Congressional Com­) came to see me and said they h~lp me to get a healthy coun­1 ~d not know who to believe. White people have to many chiefs. 
do not understand each other. do not all talk alike. 
Commissioner Chief (Mr. Hayt) ~e to go with him and hunt the r home than we have now. I 
land we found (west of the
rtse .
rva.tion) better than any place 
,.,;n 10 
that country· but it is Ind t~y land. There are'no moun­a nvers. The water is warm. It

~:od country for stock. I do 
afraid my people can live there. ho they Will all die. The In­off Ioccup~ that country are · Promised Chief Hayt to 

go there, and do the best I could until the Government got ready to make good General Miles's word. I was not satisfied, but I could not help myself. 
Then the Inspector Chief ( General NcNeil) came to my camp and we had a long talk. He said I ought ta,. have a home in · the mountain country north, and that he would write a letter to the Great Chief at Washington. Again the hope of seeing the mountains of Idaho and Oregon grew up in my heart. 
At last I was granted permission to come to Washington and bring my friend Yellow Bull and our interpreter 
with me. I am glad we came. I have shaken hands with a great many friends, but there are some things I want to know which no one seems able to ex­plain. I can not understand how the Government sends a man out to fight us, as it did General Miles, and then breaks his word. Such a Government has something wrong about it. I can not understand why so many chiefs are allowed to talk so many different ways, and promise so many different things. I have seen the Great Father Chief (the President), the next Great Chief (Secretary of the Interior), the Commissioner Chief (Hayt), the Law Chief (General Butler), and many other law chiefs (Congressmen), and they all say they are my friends, and that I shall have justice, but while their mouths all talk right I do not understand why nothing is done for my people. I have heard talk and talk, but nothing is done. Good words do not last long unless they amount to something. Words do not pay for my dead people. They do not pay for my country, now overrun by white men. They do not protect my father's grave. They do not pay for all my horses and cattle. Good words will not give me back my children. Good words will not make good the promise of your War Chief General Miles. Good words will not give my people good health and stop them from dying. Good words will not get my people a home where they can live in peace and take care of themselves. I am tired of talk that comes to nothing. It makes my heart sick when I remember all the good words and all the broken promises. There has been too much talking by men who had no right to talk. Too many misrepresentations have been made, too many misunderstandings have come up between the white men about the Indians. If the white man wants to live in peace with the Indian he can live in peace. There need be no trouble. Treat all men alike'. Give them all the 
INDIAN VOICE 37 

same law. Give them all an even chance to live and grow. All men were made · by the same Great Spirit Chief. They are all brothers. The earth is the moth­er of all people, and all people should have equal rights upon it. You might as well expect the rivers to run back­ward as that any man who was born a free man should be contented when penned up and denied liberty to go where he pleases. If you tie a horse to a stake, do you expect he will grow fat'. ? If you pen an Indian up on a small spot of earth, and compel him to stay there, he will not be contented, nor will he grow and prosper. I have asked some of the great white chiefs where they get their authority to say to the Indian that he shall stay in one place, while he sees white men going where they please. They can not tell me. 
I only ask of the Government to be treated as all other men are treated. 'If I can not go to my, own home, let me have a home in some country where my people will not die so fast. I would like to go to Bitter Root Valley. There my people would be healthy; where they are now they are dying. Three have died since I left my camp to come to Washington. · 
When I think of our condition my heart is heavy. I see men of my race treated as outlaws and driven from country to country, or shot down like animals. 
I know that my race must change . . We can not hold our own with the white men as we are. We only ask an even chance to live as other men live. We ask to be recognized as men. We ask that the same law shall work alike on all men. If the Indian breaks the law, punish him by the law. If the white man breaks the law, punish him also. 
Whenever the white man treats tne Indian as they treat each other, then we will have no more wars. We shall all be alike-brothers of one father and one mother, with one sky above us and one country around us, and one government for all. Then the Great Spirit Chief who rules above will smile upon this land, and send rain to wash out the bloody spots made by brothers' hands from the face of the earth. For this time the Indian race are waiting and praying. I hope that nc,more groans of wounded men and women will ever go the ear of the Great Spirit Chief above, and that all people may be one people. In-mut-too-yah-lat-lat has spoken for his people. ]tltC 


PYRAMID LAKE (From page 7) 

existing wastes in the N ewlands Project, the wasteful irngation practices in both the Truckee and Carson River basins, and expressed full support for the "swamps" in New lands which lately have achieved the status of a "wildlife refuge area". 
This report is the one which pres­ent Secretary Rogers C.B. Morton will base his decision on what to recommend for the California­Nevada Interstate Water Compact (HR 6078). The Bill was introduced by California Representative Harold "Biz" Johnson of Alpine two weeks after newly-elected Nevada Governor Mike O'Callaghan had signed it. 
Governor O'Callaghan signed the controversial bill on March 5, .1971,. less than a month after he took t he oath of office. The passage of the bill in Nevada was inevitable, and the Tribe was resigned to this fact. They were very angry when the Governor lost no time signing the document, however. The Gov­ernor announced that no Indian came to his office to voice any objections to the bill during the five days it lay on his desk -choos­ing to ignore the fact that the Tribe had been fighting 15 years against the bill. The bill must still be passed in the U.S. Congress and California before becoming law, and it is in Congress that it will have to be defeated, if it is to be defeated. 
Nevada and California have both wanted scarce water for a long time. As their populations grew, California's in the San Francisco Bay Area and Los Angeles, and Nevada's in the Reno-Lake Tahoe­Truckee area, their need for water grows more intense. Nevada has to grow more food, in a state which has almost no suitable agricultural land, and needs more water as well for the growing colony of tourist­type snow cabins in its high moun­tains. Both states encourage and promote emigration -it means more money for the businessmen and promoters. So both states started trying in the 1960's to get more Pyramid Lake water for themselves. 
The state set up water negotia­tors which they called "compact commissioners", and gave them power to settle the states' water 
differences. In the negotiations, 
they excluded the Pyramid Lake 
Paiutes. 
The compact commissioners 

"assumed" that all Truckee River 
water reaching Pyramid Lake, 
other than 30,000 acre-feet guar­
anteed m a 1944 decree, was 
"surplus" and "unused" water, 
therefore available for development, 
diversion, and consumption by the 
two states. Thus the Tribe found 
itself in one of the three most clear 
cases of "conflict of interest" 
within the Interior Department. 
Since there are so many inter­

ests represented in Interior, they 
frequently come into conflict. 
Indians are the only people over 
which Interior has jurisdiction, but 
when there is a conflict, for instance, 
between Indian interests and sports 
interests inside . the Department, 
Indians almost always lose to the 
ducks. The office of the Solicitor 
General · in Interior is the legal 
representative of all divisions of 
Interior -Indian, miners, ranchers, 
farmers, park builders, conserva­
tionists -and when one of the 
other groups comes into conflict 
with Indian interests, Indians lose 
most of the time. In the case of 
Pyramid Lake, Interior has always 
backed the duck and farming in­
terests. 
In an attempt to quiet the noisy and embarrassing objections made by the national Indian community to the proposed appointment of Walter J . . Hickel as Interior Sec­retary, Hickel made a trip to Reno to talk with the governors of Neva­da and California, who were meet­ing to discuss the water negotia­tions. The main topic of discussion was Pyramid Lake, over which all three -Hickel, Paul Laxault of Nevada, and Ronald Reagan of Califor~ia-"expressed concern". 
WILL PYRAMID LAKEDIE? 

The State of Nevada, the Gov­ernor, the Legislature, and the Water Engineer, all claim that the Tribe does have water rights, but the Tribe has to go to court to have these rights established. This type of legal action would cost more money than the Tribe can raise or will ever have; it should be the trustee of the Indians the Department of the Interior, which goes ,to court and foots the huge legal bill -and they refuse. 
. Im~ediat_ely _after the 
filed its smt agamst its t 
Department. of the Interior 
tense pubhc relations . ' 
was started to off set criticis 
careless handling of water ~ 
dese~t _sta,te. T~is campai~n ed usmg vanous tribal of the Paiute-Shoshone Tri ing in Lahontan Valley. at another Indian settlement end of the main irrigation rece1vmg Pyramid Lake wa have been told they wo their irrigati~n water if they take a pubhc stand in sup their brothers at Pyramid Some of them came out changing the status quo, majority of them know have water rights them for giving up 1600 their meager reservation the water. 
This lopsided public campaign quickly died wh a tors John Tunney and Kennedy held Senate he · the Paiute reservation on 5 of this year. The heari many of the tribal peop Lahontan Valley a chance their feelings about the they supported their bro Pyramid Lake. 
The hearing was inval the Tribe. It put on public the obstinate attitude of the of Reclamation, and the ness of a Federal court a to carry · out the court's But the Tribe must con · effort to save its only asset-water-using tribal which is vitally needed for development and tribal emp and to achieve a right theirs in the first place! 
The present situation of being forced to carry on a legal fight in Washington, and Sacramento, California, other places, can best be up by quoting a tribal "Such a fight, so far from and on such a large scale, ill afford. Yet we die as a if we lose it." 
by Carole AIPA 


~~ ...·,··L·CALL
MA )
2
(From Page 

pc,r ir. . . to tell you that enjoy your 1'111 wnung h I've had a subscription 
. ver muc . 
ne and I read and re-read
1971
ugu t 

. ne. h t your column in Dec./Jan. 
t sa t a . 

I 111u JYC Diction(ll'-Y is one of the Th~ I think that my favorite 

It' nght-on. 
.. 0 of John Wayne. couldn't 

ur defin1tto id it better myself. h reading I've becorne familiarnr~:: tribe 
of the Apache, Sioux1 and 


the left and then around to the r1ght the only way to ente~ or leave the This procedure 1s used at all . .All the members take their chosen nestling down like quail for the 
t. The ceremony begins with a pray­from the Leader. He places a sacred ote button on the sand moon and 
le cedar in the fire for incense. r i the holy incense that the In-uses for prayer. 
fter the prayer is given by the he and the Second Leader sing ote song praising Wakonda and great works and wonders and the cof making right, righteous things me. The peyote Leader's instru­are his peyote fan, and staff in left hand; in his right hand is a rd rattle that he shakes in time with peyote drummer, the Second Leader. The peyote drum is a cast iron kettle ro imately 12 inches in diameter a tough hide stretched over. It is ened with a rope and 6 rocks for horage. Inside the drum is water 
a q~arter full. This will give the hide moisture and change of ._The drum is passed to the Leader's 
•de and another song is sung by a o_te member. The drum is passed tinuously all night from left to right
memb · ' 
. er smging the peyote songs

h
e hkes best Half-way t . .d .
fo .0 m1 m_ght. a whistle is ni h ur times to md1cate the time ~git. T_he whistle is a bone from 0 te wmg_. It is 7 inches long and oug1i ~:es it has_ been passed down ill b generations, and in the fu­. e passed to a person properly
ted to th . .

t rnid . e peyote rehg1on. · e ni_ght the Leader blows the 
agam· th· · 

t pe . ' 1s is to indicate that nod of approximately 35 to 
... ........ •••••• •••••• •••••• •••••• •••••• •••••• •••••• •••••• •••••• •,•J!., ,••••• •••••• •••••• •••••• •••••• ••••• .......
»» ·i;.::::::::·.:~:::·.~:::O••:;::·••~~=·•.::::=·•.~~=·..::::=·••::::=·••::::=·••::::=·••::::=·••~~=·••::::=·••::::=·.,::::=·••::::=·••~::=·••~:==·.:::::=•.::::~· 
Cheyenne.. But, this is history. Yo~r maga­zine lets me know what's happening now. Thanks just for being here. 
Karen Kunkel 2325 Jefferson Ave. Redwood City, California 

40 minutes is permitted. All members leave the teepee and stretch their legs and walk aimlessly arounq until time comes to return for the rest of the night and the morning hours. 
The process of song, prayer, and the taking of medicine is continued. The songs become louder. They become more together, all singing together with the constant drone of the drum sound­ing like the blowing wind. It is then that the Peyote Society bec01i1e one single element, praising and asking Wakonda for greater understanding, for blessings to be bestowed upon them. 
As I was sitting there listening, I sud­denly found myself hypnotized by the teepee's atmosphere, and my immediate attention was all theirs. The songs they sang, I sang in my mind. The prayers they uttered, I uttered also, silently. 
At that time of night normally I'm tired; to my surprise I wasn't. Instead I began to feel stronger and stronger as the morning came. And fully awake. 
In the early hours the leader called the meeting to a halt. The last prayer 
EADY

BEADS BEADS 

Chainette Fringe on Spools 
Large Selections of Craft Items 
Special Prices for Quantity Purchases AT 
Larry's Costume & Novelty Co. 1645 W. San Carlos Street San Jose, Calif. 95128 
Phone: · 293-6036 
Credit Cards Accepted 
INDIAN VOICE 39 

WINNEBAGO 
Ifyou hit a child, 
you will be merely knocking 
the wickedness into him. 
Likewise children are made wicked 
by scoldings. 
Ifyou meet anyone on the road, 
even though it is only a child, 
Speak a cheering word before 
yo.upass. 
was said. The last song of the night was sung. Everyone was happy, visiting, and swapping funny stories of previous meetings until the morning light came and a Peyote Meeting Breakfast was served. The Breakfast consisted of sweet meat, fruit, corn mush, cookies and an assortment ofsweet candies. The Break­fast was plentiful and some of the mem­bers urged me to eat all I could. And I did. 
During my presence there I scanned the face of all the members. Some were old men, practitioners for years. Others were young men 25 to 40 years of age. And I thought "During my experiences in the other world they informed me that this religion was dying out." But as a first-hand witness, I have discovered that the Peyote Society is increasing in number and the meetings are held more frequently throughout the country. 
I am glad at my discovery. The Tee­pee Meeting identifies the American Indian. It is a religious ceremony com­posed by himself, as an Indian. And the Indian, I believe, has become an indestructible element in our modern world society. This Peyote Meeting ex­poses the Indian's strong religious con­stitution-the will to exist as an Indian person and continue to exist no matter what the opposition he has against him. That is his magic, song and prayer; it truly produces good results. 
Some people don't believe in magic. But magic is responsible for this Crea­tion; and the Creation is magic. Who can truly say or think that there is no magic? That would say we do not exist. 
We are magic, ourselves! 
by Dan Murray 

(Reprinted from The Raven Speaks) 
(Dan Murray is an Otoe Indian from Perkins, Okla.) 
]tit{ 




Vermillion; S. D. -Dr. James E. Gil­lihan, Director of the W. H. Over Dakota Museum at the University of South Dakota, finds no conflict between the religion of the Sioux-and modern Christianity-. He feels that we all pray to the same god whether we call him Wakan-Tanka, God, or some other name. The two main ingredients are faith and sincerity in prayer. 
Gillihan is an active member of St. Paul's Episcopal Church where he teaches a weekly class in Old Testament for adults and is chairman of the up­coming pancake dinner at the church. He has participated in religious retreats at the Episcopal Camp in Arkansas and has directed a number of other church functions. 
And during the past sixteen months, Gillihan has participated with a num­ber of Indians in traditional Indian ceremonials. Four different Holy Men of the Sioux have been house guests at the Gillihans and have conducted various ceremonies. Frank Fool Crow, John Fire, Chief Eagle Feather and Charles Kills Enemy have all talked to the Gillihans about the ancient and modern life of the Sioux people. 
In the fall of last year Mrs. Gillihan was troubled with a ruptured disc in her back which first required traction and then an elaborate brace. Kills En­emy suggested an Inipi, the purification rite of the Sioux, and stated that Wam­blee Ho Waste (Good Voice Eagle) 
CONVERTS TO INDIAN RELIGION 
would visit the sweat lodge ceremony for healing. As Mrs. Gillihan ap­proached the lodge during the cere­mony, a large eagle flew in from the west and circled the lodge. The medi­cine was successful; the back brace has been taken off and she feels great. Mrs. Gillihan has since been given the spiri­tual Indian name of "Good Voice Eagle Girl". She credits the success of the lodge with the sincere prayers of the Holy Man. 
Since the healing ceremony, the Gil­lihans have given a ceremony of thanks­giving and have had their house blessed the traditional Indian way. The newest activity has been the establishment of an Inipi, a sweat lodge or purification lodge. The lodge was erected near the Gillihan home east of Vermillion. It is used as a place for the family to off er private prayers or as a center for Holy Men to conduct ceremonies for various purposes. To the Gillihans, the lodge is a very serious thing, not a place for curiosity. A number of their friends have participated in ceremonies there in­cluding teachers, businessmen, students, and recently a Boy Scout executive. Most have commented that they have received a strong religious feeling in the sweat lodge and others have been visibly moved. A number of Indian students and local Indians from several reserva­tions have also participated in the lodge. 
The rite of the onikare or sweat lodge ties together all of the forces of nature. 

The lodge itself is a model or repr 
tion ~f the entire universe. Theese 
used m !~e ceremony ~rings go<>d 
and punfies each par~icipant With 
ste~~ s~ that we can hve as the 
Spmt wills. The water reminds th 
ticipants that Wankan-Tanka Ge 
always flowing or giving to us his~ 
and life. It purifies us so that w 0 
more like God who is all puritye 
rocks used in the lodge represe~t 
earth, from whom all fruits come 
fire used to heat the rocks repr · 
the great power of God. The center 
the sweat lodge has a central hole 
which the heated rocks will be p 
fo~ the ceremony. A stick is placed 
this hol_e to represent the center of 
universe and a prayer is offered as 
lows: 
"O Grandfather and Father, W 
Tanka, maker of all that is, who 
always been, behold me! And y 
Grandmother and Mother Earth 
are Wakan (holy) and have holy 
hear me! We have come from you, 
are part of you, and we know that 
bodies will return to you, at the 
that our spirits travel on the great p 
By fixing this center in the Earth, I 
memberWakan-Tanka, with whom 
spirits become as one. By purifying 
self in this way, I wish to make m 
worthy of you, 0 Wakan-Tanka, 
my people will live." 
A sacred path is now established 
connect the center of the lodge, re senting the universe, to a small mo · outside of the lodge. This path r 
sents the straight or true path to 
Great Spirit. 
The leader of the ceremony prays fi 
guidance on the path to the four d' 
tions, four manifestations of the 
Great Power. He then enters the 1 
and purifies it with sweet grass. He 
fills his pipe and places it on the 
at the end of the sacred path. The 
ticipants bow low (indicating hu · 
to enter the lodge and prayers and so 
are offered to Wankan-Tanka. The 
from the rocks placed in the center 
the lodge is converted to steam as 
Holy Man pours water over them f 
an ancient pail. The ceremony ends 
the shared smoking of the pipe. 
The Gillihans have observed an 
her of healing activities that can ° 
be explained through the powe! 
prayer and the sincere faith of the Si 
Holy Men. They are convinced 
can Indian medicine still works won 

** ********** 
, ,* 

d. n Voice

Jri ia 
ants your Articles 
d Short Stories 

an 
rite for us? We need you to

\\ nt to w . . 
•1 There is something happening m 
11 , that the rest of the ·world 
. 1re,1 h . h 

ur ' k v about Or t ere is a s ort
1lcl nO\ . . d 'ting 10 your hea . 

0 \,·a• · Th d h 
. hem down. en sen t em to

\ rite t . 
n Voice. If you can send us pictures 
I ,,e I II ,,·e will at least pay you for the f he film. We want to pay you for 
IO t d ' h 
r1tin . but at the mom~n~ we 0~ 1have 
1

nn for it. With you e p_ we \\;h'i a:~ u lit . in our magazine t at wi 1 ; rn ney for us -then we can pay 
u . b
\\ e t rted the magazine ~cau_se we . 
dt that Indians needed a voice m the ,ernment, on the local scene as well as national scene. The white man can\,Jrn a I t from the Indian as well, if he 
ill ·top nd take the time_ to listen_. (ni i the reason, and if you think the 
, we do help us out by reporting and r11in ; end us your literature if you 
n't ha e time to write; or send us ideas nd n tice if you don't have time for mthin el e. 
l...et · make this magazine one for all in the nation who want to use it. The editors. 
BILL'S MODEL SHOES · 
American Indian Arts and Crafts 
Jewelry-Pottery-Moccasins 

I 
' 
' 
I 
Bill's Model Shoe Shop 2945 College Avenue Berkeley, California 
INDIAN VOICE 41 


• 
:
•
•
•
:
•
•
•
:
•
•
•
: SUBSCRIPTION : 
One-year gift subscription 
-:-~GI~# ~Ef 
. .. will mail gift cards to your lucky friends, telling them your specialgiftis on its way! 
.* Canada and ot_her countries add $1.00 for postage. 
To: IND/AN VOICE, P.O~ BOX 2033, SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA $5051 
.
I am enclosing a check or money order for $__.for:___subscriptions.
• •­
D 1 sub.7. 50 D 2 subs.15. 00 D 3 subs.22. 00 My name is·--------.---or.,.,-------------•.........•
(please pnnt)

•Address'---------~------------•...•. . .
' 

City.__________State,_______ 
• FOR A :
•
•
•

FRIEND... :
•
•
•

AGI FT :
•
•
• 


..• : .
-..

•... ­
• 
• 
________ip__
• 
• 
Sign card 
We'll hand sign an announcement card with name or nickname you choose. 
• 
D PLEASE ENTER MY OWN SUBSCRIPTION, ALSO. 
.•

O yeargift to·-------1-.....i• 
Address,_________.....
. 

City·~--------•....• State.__-=--___lip.____.• 
Signcard_________ •
• 




42. INDIAN VOICE 

AIP A NEWS FEATURE 
PORCUPINE, S. D.-Those who 
knew and loved him best afterwards 
called him "a quiet man," and Ray­
mond Yellow Thunder now rests here 
beneath an eagle feather tied to a stick 
which dances quietly in the early spring 
winds. 
He was a grandson of Americ'an Horse, . one of the great Sioux war­riors, and one of a family of seven . childi:en. He was a lover of horses and children, and he chose to remain in Oglala Sioux country for the whole of his 51 years, close to the tawny prairies and open skies of his birth. A school friend, Alex Gray, remembers him as an average student, a good athlete, and 
the best artist in school. 
He knew the poverty of the reserva­
tion well. ...,.Born in nearby Kyle, he 
learned there to roam on horseback 
and to plow and to hoe. He earned 
extra money breaking horses for near­
by ranchers and turned it into a life­
time skill. He became a ranchhand, 
was married briefly and left no children. 
In the last years of his life he worked 
on ranches near Gordon, Nebraska, 
and would return on weekends to the 
reservation. 
His niece said he was a good baby­
sitter and cook who usually brought a 
big bag of groceries with him when 
he came. 
His sudden death, after a random seizure by white murderers on a Satur­day night in a small, rural, anti-Indian town; the mockery and the humiliation he · suffered at their hands; and the brutality they poured upon him, are but one of the long chain of horrors Oglala Sioux Indians have endured for many decades-without redress. But this time there was redress, and it came from other Indians, not the whiteman's justice system. The American Indian Movement converged on Gordon, Ne­braska, the site of the murder, and demanded justice for Indians in the town. 
And they brought to light two facts of reservation life which made it possi­ble for whites to unthinkingly murder an Indian in cold blood. First, the family of Yellow Thunder was denied the right to view his body-against all customary practice-until it had been prepared for burial. They had heard rumors that he had been muti­lated, but authorities denied them the privilege of inquiring about that. A later autopsy revealed that he had not been mutilated, but in the meantime the rumors about it had sent chills of fear through the Indians. 
Secondly, the existence of rumor~ on the reservation itself, and the substitu­tion of rumor for fact in the case, point out the isolation and helpless­ness felt by many people living on the reservation. Instead of being able to move with freedom and ease through the world of the whitemen off the re­servation inhabitants feel constricted and afraid when they leave the reser­vation. They leave to buy clothes, or groceries, and for nothing else, and return as soon as their business is fin­ished. The merchants in the town of Gordon, and a hundred other such reservation towns, want it that way. 
But through the presence of the ac­tivist members of AIM, the brutal agony of a silent man was suddenly transformed into an issue an entire na­tion must face. Mutilation of a man was never the issue. At issue was the unfortunate rhetoric of a County Prose­cutor who could call the tragic beat­ing death a "cruel practical joke" by "pranksters." 
At issue were remarks overheard once the findings of a second autopsy were made public. "It wasn't as bad as they made it out to be," said one white with obvious relief. 
"Oh," said an Indian woman. "Is he then still alive ? " 
************
411 
ALVIN C. LEWIS 
AUTHENTIC AMERICAN INDIAN ARTS AND CRAFTS 
231 VALENCIA ST. SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 94403 


rugs pottery baskets 
zuni-navajo-hopijewel, rare old pawn Y artifacts (two locations) 
513 Second Street Da .
' VIS
57
70 Freeport, Sacramento 


SNOW Snow falls. People walk 
where snow falls and snow falls aFa where people 
have walked. And these footstep hide from you beneath the snow. 
from "Three Winter Poem by Wayne Keon 

INDIAN VOICE 43 



,,/ 
ter is a well-known character in every Indian village; and
The boas · · · t lf 
. Iain from the number of stones warnmg us agams se ­
.q~:arthe wise men of the tr~be have not been slow to discover 
' . t out this weakness of their people. poin t ries told by Smoky Day are seldom without a moral, and The; ~ure that the children are not sent to him only to be enter­

. IDAY b:t also to learn and profit by the stored-up wisdom ?f theM over they are expected afterward· to repeat the tales m the . ?::ie a~d there is much rivalry among the little folks as to who y~: the~ best. Teona has a good memory and ready wit, and his . te are commonly received with approval, but it happens that 
ons · · · h b h · htl
'ttle Tanagela, his cousm, has Just won a tnump Y. er spng. y of telling the fourth evenin~'s tale of the seve~ 'Yarnors. The httle · listens to-night with burnmg cheeks and shmmg eyes, eager to 
repeat her success with the pretty story of 
TII FALCON AND THE DUCK 
wintry winds had already be­

to whistle and the waves to rise the Drake and his mate gathered balfgrown brood together on the 
of their far northern lake. ife," said he, "it is now time to the children southward, to the 
rm Countries which they have et seen!" 
early the next morning they out on their long journey, forming t Vagainst the sky in their flight. mother led her flock and the father t up the rear, keeping a sharp 
out for stragglers. 
day they flew high in the keen 0 er wide prairies and great for­.of northern pine, until toward they saw below them a chain glittering like a string of dark­ones. Swinging round in a half they dropped lower and lower 
to 1· ' 
a •ght and rest upon the surface of the nearest lake. 
cnly th · 

eir leader heard a whiz­un~ like that of a bullet as it ~t and she quickly gave the AU onk! honk! Danger, dan­
tb descended in dizzy spirals thec gre~t Falcon swooped to~ · rn With upraised wing, the
11
Tbscattered wildly hither and be :hold Drake came last, and 0 Was struck! 

"Honk, honk!" cried all the Ducks in terror, and for a minute the air was full of soft downy feathers like flakes of snow. But the force of the blow was lost upon the well-cushioned body of the Drake, he soon got over his fright and went on his way southward with his family, while the Falcon dropped heavily to the water's edge with a bro­ken wing. 
There he stayed and hunted mice as best he could from day to day, sleep­ing at night in a hollow log to be out of the way of the Fox and the Weasel. All the wit he had was not too much whereby to keep himself alive through the long, hard winter. 
Toward spring, however, the Fal­con's wing had healed and he could fly a little, though feebly. The sun rose higher and higher in the blue heavens, and the Ducks began to return to their cool northern home. Every day a flock or two flew over the lake; but the Fal­con dared not charge upon the flocks, much as he wished to do so. He was weak with hunger, and afraid to trust to the strength of the broken wing. 
One fine day a chattering flock of Mallards alighted quite near him, cool­ing their glossy breasts upon the gently rippling wave. 
"Here, children," boasted an old Drake, "is the very spot where your 
FIFTH EVENING 
WIGWAM EVENINGS 
father was charged upon last autumn 
by a cruel Falcon! I can tell you that 
it took all my skill and quickness in 
dodging to save my life. Best of all, 
our fierce enemy dropped to the ground 
with a broken wing! Doubtless he is 
long since dead of starvation, or else 
a Fox or a Mink has made a meal of 
the wicked creature!" 
By these words the Falcon knew his old enemy, and his courage returned. 
"Nevertheless, I am still here!" he exclaimed, and darted like a flash upon the unsuspecting old Drake, who was resting and telling of his exploit and narrow escape with the greatest pride and satisfaction. 
"Honk! honk!" screamed all the Ducks, and they scattered and whirled upward like the dead leaves in autumn; .but the Falcon with sure aim selected the old Drake and gave swift chase. Round and round in dizzy spirals they swung together, till with a quick spurt the Falcon struck the shining, out­stretched neck of the other, and snap­ped it with one powerful blow of his reunited wing. 
Do not exult too soon; nor is it wise to tell of your brave deeds within the hearing ofyour enemy. 
by Charles and Elaine Eastman 



AMERICAN INDIAN & WESTERN RELIC SHOW AND SA 
SPONSORED AND OPERATED BY AMERICAN INDIANS 
MAY 27, 28 and 29, 1972 

Antique and Modern Indian Arts and Crafts, Artifacts and Rare Collectors Items, Western Americana Items, Knives, Swords, Antiques, Art, Books and Firearms Associated with the Indian War and Early West Era-Prior to 1890-Indian Collection Awards. THE NATION'S TOP QUALITY INDIAN SHOW 
BIGGER AND BETTER THAN LAST YEAR 
INDIAN TRADERS AND DEALERS FROM 11 ST ATES 
SOME OF THE FINEST COLLECTIONS IN CALIFORNIA ON DISPLAY 
HOURS: SAT. 12:00 NOON -9:00 P.M. ADMISSION $1.75-CHILDREN 
SUN.10:00 A.M. -9:00 P.M. MON. 10:00 A.M. _6:00 p .M. Location: Goodmans Hall, No.10 Jack London Square, Oakland, 
INVIAN COLLECTOR'S ITEMS SHOWS ANV AUCTIONS-JEWELRY-BEAr:wORK AT<rIFACTS-COLLECTIONS-BOUGHT-APPRAISEV FREE MAILING LIST 
THE NATIONAL INDIAN CENTER 1582 Colorado Blvd. Eagle Rock, California 
90041 
not because you are unhap at the loss ofyour wife. 
Ifyou love a person and that person dies, then you will have a right to 
Sometimes dreams are wiser than waking. 
Take courage! The earth is all that 
Every little thing is sent for something, and in that thing there should be happiness and the power to make happy. 


ONE MAN'S VISION 
A lone and tired hunter sat under a shade tree. Through a break in the tree branches, he contemplated the sky above. He thought of the old ways of his people, the ways that were so good. The way of life for the Indian before the people from across the waters came to swallow up and imprison his people. Without realizing what he was do­ing, he began to speak to the Great Spirit. 
"O great Spirit, come into my heart, as it is so very heavy for my people. Tell me and teach me the things I must know and that I must teach my people. Lift up my thought.s as the majestic mountains lift up their lofty tops to touch you." 
"O Great Spirit, help me to see and feel the beauty of all things around me: the green grass, the drops on morning dew, flowers as they open, the spider spinning its web, the beauty of sunrise and sun­set. Show me the way so that I do not falter or stumble. Grant me the strength to carry on when my spirit is low." 
"O Great Spirit, teach me pat­ience -patience for the times when I become to eager, too eager for things to change wheP You know what is to come to my people. I seek your presence for comfort. I search for your voice so that I may know and listen when you speak. Grant me knowledge and wisdom so that I _may teach my people that they must not falter, or forget, or give in to the wanton ways of the new people." 
As the huntsman spoke to the Great Spirit, telling what was in his heart, a great white horse descended from a cloud. The horse came to him and spoke: "D o not be fearful or desperate, but be faithful, for you will have a message for your people someday. You will lead your people out of a great crisis. Your problems will be many, but you are not to falter. The Great Spirit will tell you when the time has come to carry out this mission. Teach your people to prepare, to remember the old ways, the ancient way to talk with the Great Spirit above. Have patience with your people, as they have been away 
from the old ways for so long." The great white horse began to fade into the cloud, and a smile caressed the hunter's face. He would not falter. 
Wah-Nie-Pae 

ATTENTION SUBSCRIBERS 
Change of Address? Zip Code Correct? 
We can assure prompt delivery of your maga­zine if we show the correct address and ZIP Code on your mailing label. (Postal regula­tions require us to file addresses according "f' PRINT YOUR NEW ADDRESS HERE "f' to ZI P CODE.l If you move, be sure to 
Fill out and mail to! 
CITY_________________
IND/AN VOICE P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, California 95050. 
STAT~----------ZIP_____ 

---------------------------------~-----------------------~­




A PRAYER TO REMEMBE 
WMWMWMWM~~~~~~~~~~~-~ 
Hear us, Oh Great Spirit. Our sustain us. Where once the buffalo people cry out to YOU. They have and elk roamed free to furnish us been physically conquered and de­with the things most necessary, and nied the freedom of all YOU have where the herbs and plants grew given them. wild for the taking. Where the lofty 
I 
YOU created the sky, in which all trees raised their majestic arms to the feathered creatures -the soar­the heavens and held within their ing eagle, the swift hawk, the dart­branches the homes of our tiny ing hummingbird, the chickadee and friends. They gave protection from the blackbird, which followed the the rain, or a cool place. to rest buffalo, could be free. The place from the sun's bright rays. On the 
from where the rains came to nour­top of a mountain one could beI ish and replenish the earth and close to nature to meditate in the 
I 
sometimes caused the beautiful stillness and pray to the Great 
spectacle of a rainbow, its meaning Wakan-Tanka. both physical and spiritual as it Oh Great Spirit YOU gave us 
I 
II played a dual role in joining the life-sustaining water. It made all earth with the sky. Where the many things grow. Without it nothing stars, that twinkled on a velvet could survive. It was clean and background on a clear night, pure. We used it to purify ourselves watched over us. F\'om whence came when we wanted to talk to YOU. the Winipii, sighing through the All this as YOU made it long trees and making the plants and ago, Oh Great One, let it be once 
tall grasses bow gently in its car­more, and bring back the hope of 
essing embrace. our people, who loved YOU with a Mother Earth, whom YOU also pure heart. We need YOUR guid­
created, to provide the needs to ing hand and spiritual help. 
PA ID PERM IT NO, 20 
P.O. BOX 2033 

SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 
SAN JOSE, C 
' 
' 
l_____ _ 










