
. 
!INUIIA'lN 
:/ ,' \VO!IC!f '. \t 
Crazy Horse 




Leona rd Bedeaux 
( CH I PPEWA ) 
One of the major social problems in our today is the "Crisis of Identity". It is hardly men tioned nor expounded upon by name. We see evt dence of it each day; whether we are aware conscious of its many manifestations is a matter individual conscience. 
Do you ever wonder why some people seem grasp and follow so many different fads and fal lacies ? The wearing of odd clothing, various styles, an infinite variety of facial pigments, ta on the arms and body. According to the "exper (Freudians and the like), such ·weird and bizar accouterments are subconscfously linked to the uni versal illness one could aptly name the "Crisis Identity". 
In spite of all the vulgar, loud, blatant noise 
hear on radio, TV and the press about the "libe 
ated man and woman", man is very much still 
gregarious and provincial monkey! Listen, my fel 
low tribesmen..."I'm a member of the Elks Club 
see my elk's tooth?"; "Say, man, I'm a Bl 
Panther, see it emblazoned on my T-shirt?"; " 
my hair, I wear an, Afro-natural." A native Af 
can delegate to the UN, when asked about 
hair-do, r eplied, "I've never seen nor heard 
such a thing in Africa. " 
A "drugstore" Indian speaks, "I'm 1/16 and my grandmother was Indian." Why couldn't have been his grandfather? Or is it inconceivab for an old Indian stud to have a romantic interlu or even a "Christian marriage" .(whatever that · to a blue-eyed Venus? An old 118-year-old Chi pew a, "Bugpnaggeshig" or "Hole-in-the-Day", had wives at one time, two of which were blue-ey Venuses. 
Now back to this "drugstore" or character, 1/64th of what? Identity? May it j as well be 1/16th moon man or madness? 
We Indians should not be too concerned with age-old question of "Who am I?" Regardless whether you believe in Adam and Eve or you we dropped from the bowels of a red, white and bl turkey buzzard, matters not one iota. Would make you a better Indian if you had documen evidence that Adam was your distant relative? Oka red brother, send me a dollar and I'll mail you genuine Polaroid snapshot of Adam in the act signing your geneological origin (notarized, tool) Sound funny? Of course, I'm being facetious, b there are such organizations called good old 11 Ameri can business enterprise." We Indians know whoted are and know where we are going. Libera Free? From what? These are questions only can answer for ourselves. We don't need Sigm Freud, or was it "Fraud"? That also goes for . the do-good social planners, the misty-eyed ~ sionaries and the pseudo-Indians who are not but thorns among roses who wish a realistic Vi of life. ( Continu ed on page ei.ghteen ) 
I NDIAN 


THIS MONTHS COVER 
. t eon this month's 
pie ur d 
e . 
r • s a
co e t 
e th a 
s· 
OU S I 0 
. t 
e p IC is a 

ha t 
S·oux war Chief. 
I h t 
H rse once boasted ta
0 
adow would never be taken white man's magic box. orrow curator of ~he collection at the Univ­of South Dako ta, believes be a photog raph of the 
chieftain. 

is helping to keep the and cultu~·e alive. i, my check tor a year's 
Josephine Brackus 0 ille, Idaho 
a lot of Indian publications and all of them. Over the years
developed a case-hardened exter­not many articles prompt me to about them... Your Editorial, "A 
iew" by Leonard Bedeaux. this and I read it five times, I read it the more I got out 
is along my way of thinking 
n ed more of this kind of writing. like to meet this man and talk sometime, I think we have a 
common, I think we have a leader 
m where I read that the Indian is the or anized people in the U. S. A. I to list all the different ones been thought up, it would fill 
azine. 
Black man has the N. A. A. C. P. Panthers, that's about it. When n gets Unity, we will have it 
fear, it's on the way, and when we will be a force to be with. 
Walson agreed 
photograph purporte
h
of Crazy Horse, t e 
ux  War  Chif.  Craz  
re  on  this  month's  
U  

photograph purported of crazy Horse, the 
b7:.f 
~\-!~.-th-e-wa-y-,t-,s-.--$--­



·it/,---------------------­
{~­
The Smithsonian Institution, a complex of seven buildings, em­bodies the mentality of its founders in the locations of its displays. American Indians were given no room in the National Museum of History & Technology, which shows the panoply of developing American life from Martha Washington's in­augural gown to an earth rotation pendulum. But if one looks in another building, the National Mu­seum of Natural History, the Na­tive American will find his ances­tors tucked away in a corner be­tween"American Mammals, " "Birds of the World" and other prehistoric 
creatures... 
Urban Indian Centers in four cities-Minneapolis, Los Angeles, Fairbanks and Gallup-will receive $1 million over three years under a new interagency demonstration project program to strengthen city Indian community centers. The project, to be announced publicly in coming weeks, represents over a year's work of complicated fund­ing arrangements by the Office of Economic Opportunity, the Eco­nomic Development Agency, and the Departments of Labor, Housing and Urban Development, and Health, Education and Welfare. 
Intermountain Indian School at Brigham City, Utah is being con­sidered for an on-site probe by the BIA. Commissioner Louis Bruce was dissuaded by his staff from a tentative plan to conduct the hearings himself. Activist, Lehman Brightman, meanwhile de­scribed conditions at Intermountain before a Senate subcommittee hear­ing and submitted a written report to Congress and the administration and the school itself, according to a private memorandum entitled, "Current Information on Emergency Priorities," listed staff procedures relating to student demonstrations, outsiders visiting the school to talk with employees or students and relay of information concerning employees "agitating students to demonstrate or riot. " 
A Manual of Contracting Pro­cedures in laymen's language is on its way to agencies and tribes from the BIA Washington Office. The manual, an interim document, subject to a two-month discussion before it becomes official, will provide guidelines on cate·gories of contracting to tribes, "Buy Indian" preference, the relation between con'kacting and self-determination, Indian supervision of Bureau em­ployees during contracting, and the procedures and review of contracts at agency, area and central office levels. 
The Position of Director in HEW's Office of Indian Affairs, vacant since February with the departure of Forrest Gerard for Sen. Henry Jackson's staff, is expected to be filled in the next three weeks. 
The repeal of the infamous HCR 108 "termination resolution" of 1952 has been introduced in the Senate by Sen. Henry Jackson, D­Wash. The new resolution repudi­ates termination as a federal policy; reaffirms the unique relation be­tween Indians and the federal gov­ernment; recognizes self-determi­nation; seeks reinforcement of citizens' rights for all reservation and urban Indians; commits the government to protect Indian lands, resources and rights; and recog­.nizes U.S. -Alaskan native cultures 
as a basis for progress. 

"Call it ' MOD' look ! Mini look !" 
called the two-day conferenc
BIA REORGANIZATION CALLED A FAILURE 
"beginning of grassroots Pae 
The reorganization of the BIA 
that took nearly two years to de­
sign and fill, has been pronounced 
a failure and is being reorganized 
again. One official named it "Son 
of Reorganization." 
Administration officials are cre­
ating a new position, Deputy Com­
missioner, to assist Commissioner 
Louis Bruce in administration of 
the Central Office. The two po­
sitions of Associate Commissioner 
are being looked at with a view 
to abolishing them, Washington 
sources indicated. This will mean 
an entirely new flow chart of staff 
personnel and line authority offi­
cials to handle the Bureau's many 
reservation-serving programs. 
Bruce has been unable to fill 
several of his top positions be­
cause of lack of Administration 
support for his many recommen­
dations. These "super-grade" levels 
of government employment require 
"political clearance" from within 
the Administration that can 'be even 
more demanding than the require­
ments of Civil Service itself. Ap­
parently, there are not enough 
"qualified Indians" who are also 
recognized as "qualified Republi­
cans." 
TOP POSITIONS UNFILLED Officials also indicate that In­terior Assistant Secretary for Pub­lic Land Management, Harrison Loesch, and his deputy Orme Lewis Jr. , have insisted that new BIA officials come from outside the Bureau. In their insistance upon cleaning house "they have gotten rid of everyone who knows how to make the system work. " Be­cause Bruce has had so little to say in selecting his top staff, his so-called "team" has broken up into two factions that keep form­ing new liaisons as they jockey for power to control Bureau policy. 
POLICY ORDERS FROM INTERIOR 
While this goes on within Bruce's own shop, he has had to take orders on most of his policies from Loesch's office in the In­terior Department. This has left him in the uncomfortable position of having to accept public responsi­bility for everything that happens in Indian Affairs. Tribal Leaders look to the Commissioner for lea­dership in developing the policies that they ask for. Yet, he is often at the mercy of forces be­hind the scenes that he cannot 
control nor even comment upon. 
Interior officials Loesch and 
Lewis, together with White House 
aides for minority affairs Leonard 
Garment and Brad Patterson, are 
reportedly creating much of today's 
Indian policy. Congressional budget 
committees appropriate and review 
the amount of money to be made 
available for 1programs, and often 
make specific determinations for 
and against projects in which they 
are interested. Finally, the Ad­
ministration's Office of Manage­
ment and Budget makes critical 
determinations on whether appro­
priated money can actually be 
spent for particular projects. 
INDIAN PROBLEMS AVOIDED 
"Indian self-determination" may be a highly publicized Admini­stration policy, but it will require adequate political and financial sup­port to reassure Indians that they can take over without themselves having to bear the burdens of failure that they now prefer to be borne by the controversial BIA. 
Reorganization of the BIA will not necessarily meet the Govern­ment's treaty responsibilities to­wards American Indians. Former BIA Commissioner Robert L. Ben­nett said that "they told me to reorganize the Bureau, too, but reorganization is something that you do in order to avoid working on the problems. " 
There is little hope that any of these problems will be solved until the many forces influencing Indian Affairs from behind the scenes stop using Indians to meet their own political needs and start work­ing together to meet the needs of the Indians as defined by their own tribal leaders. 
Committee On BIA Changes Meet 
WASHINGTON, D. C. (AIPA): The initial steps to make a single uni­fied voice from Indian country heard in the corridors of the Bu­reau of Indian Affairs were taken here May 13-15 as Indian Com­missioner Louis R. Bruce and his top assistants met with a 15-mem­ber tribal chairmen's interim com­mittee on BIA reorganization. 
The chairmen made it clear that they had no intention of being a rubber stamp for existing BIA poli­cies. A spokesman for Bruce pation" in Bureau activities 
A special analysis team· f outside the BIA was assigned Interior Secretary Rogers C Morton to determine what c • were essential in the manage of the controversial Bureau. ward Preston and George from that team explained its ings on BIA administrative p lems in candid statements to chairmen. 
The interim committee has tative plans to meet .again Bruce before its Constitutional c vention in Albuquerque, N. June 18-19. 
Mediation "Planning Council" Formed 
WASHINGTON, D. C. (AIPA) · seven-member internal "Pla · Council'' for the Bureau of I Affairs to mediate disputes policies and procedures was for in Phoenix, Ariz. , April 15 at a top-level conference w Indian Commissioner Louis Bruce termed "long overdue. 11 
Principal leaders from both s of a critical internal administr dispute were represented on council. BIA Education Dir James Hawkins was appointed p ning council chairman. Other bers selected from each level administration by their assoc were Ernest Stevens, Alexa McNabb, Wyman Babby, J Canan, John Artichoker and Payton. 
The Phoenix meeting-whose pose was to review a repo BIA administration prepared management consulting group­attended by 12 top officials f the BIA Washington office, the Area Directors and the 12 bers of the Superintendents' C mittee. 
Council Chairman Hawkins the full group plans to meet terly. "I think the new pla council will work, " said Haw "Our main thrust will be to as much authority as possible the operating level. Some au ities will undoubtedly have to main on the Area level. At 1 we have now developed cha of communication to discuss matters." 
1. A "model tribal code'' tribal courts is the objective 13-member Indian Civil Rights Force, to be completed by e 

ogers To Mediate IA Dispute 

' HI GTO , D. C. (AIPA): of Interior Rogers C. B. or n has assigned management i i t \ illiam L. Rogers to mediator in a dispute be­the new BIA team in Wash­nd administrators in the 
said he was asked by 
ry Morton to help improve administration of the BIA, h he has no line authority 
r he B_IA itself. He has been 
0 1 
1th BIA Commissioner 
R. Bruce and with a newly BIA Planning Council to 
th
em "develop their goals performance toward thos~ 
• and motivate people to make t use of their talents 11 
r . 
asked the Council to 
BIA's 1 .
m. . P ans to implement . iru~tration's policy of "self­
rm1nation 'th 
th wi out termination " 
cat 
members discussed the nature of the federal trus­
''Just Following Orders' 
ARCHIE BLA CKSMITH 
( S I OU X) 
A few years ago, the BIA started a program called the "Relocation Program". This was a project designed to take the Indian off the Reservation and bring him to the big city, so that he might learn the ways of the white man and eventually live as a city man. During the transition from reser­vation to city life, many funny tales have come up. Here is just an example of some of them: 
It seemed that three or four days had lapsed since the scheduled reporting date of one elderly In­dian man, who we shall call "Jim" , to the Relocation Office in Los Angeles, Calif. After a series of phone calls to the Reservation, to the train station, bus terminal, and finally the Missing Persons Department of the Police Depart­ment, the Relocation Officers could not find any trace of "Jim"! In the end, it was finally Jim who located them and notified them about his whereabouts. This was all accomplished through a very big bill from the "HILTON" Hotel there in L.A. You see, the In­dian had been living there for al­most a week. The bill included meals, a couple of parties, and mostly room service. 
When the BIA Officers questioned Jim about the whole thing, this is what he told them: 
"On the day I left the Reser­vation, this was the last thing t4ey told me not to do. They said not to go to a place called Skid-row, don't live in a flop house, don't eat in a hash house, and don't drink wine with those skid-row bums. With all this on my mind when I arrived here, the first thing I did was to catch a thing called a "Cab", and I told him to take me to the best hotel in town. 

He took me to the Hilton, I re­membered not to eat hash so I ordered the best they had to eat. I remembered not to drink wine on skid-row, so I drank in my room, had a few parties, and I sure enjoyed myself!" 
They asked Jim why he didn't try to get in touch with them be­fore this, and Jim replied, "Guess I was just too busy learning how to live like the white man!" 
Since this incident, all those that came on Relocation, always have a place, hotel, or motel, that they must report to, and they were al­ways very sure they knew the name of this place.
--------~ 
BIA 1829 to 1971 -­and meanwhile back on the reservation -­
If you were an Indian... -Your life span would be 42 to 44 years, 21 years shorter than that of your fellow citi­zens; -Your income would be $1,500, 75 per cent below the national average, and $1, 000 lower than the average black family; -You would have, on the aver­age, five years of schooling, and your probability of unem­ployment would be ten times the national average; -The suicide rate of your teenager would be 100 times that of whites; --The odds would be 2-to-1 that your child would never finish high school and 100-to-1 that he would not graduate from college; 



Indian Anthropologist Succumbs 
TUCSON, ARIZ. (AIPA): Dr. Edward P. Dozier, Pueblo-Santa Clara, Professor of Anthropology and Linguistics of American Indi­ans, died of a heart attack at his home here May 4 at the age of 55. 
Dr. Dozier was the author of several books including, "Pueblo Indians of North America, II "Moun­tain Arbutus," and "Hono." 
He was first vice-president of the Association on American Indi­an Affairs; he graduated from the University of New Mexico in 1947, was a Social Science Research Council Fellow at the University of California at Los Angeles in 1949-50, a Whitney Fellow in 1950 and 1951, and received a Ph.D. degree there in 1952; he was an instructor in anthropology at the University of Oregon, a researcher of the Wenner-Gren Foundation, Associate Professor at North­western University, research fel­low at Stanford University and a field researcher with the National Scientific Foundation in the Philip­pines; he was a member of the Linguistic Society of America, the American Folklore Society, the American Anthropological Associ­ation, and was a fellow with the American Association for Advanced Science. 
He leaves his wife, Marianne; a son, Miguel; and two daughters, Mrs. Wanda Kabotie and Adya. 
Treaty Null ificat ion Proposed 
WASHINGTON, D. C. (AIPA): Rep. Lloyd Meeds, D-Wash., has requested special studies in the House Indian Affairs subcommittee to examine the possibility of "ex­tinguishing the treaty rights of In­dians by the granting of payment~. " 
Meeds' special request to sub­committee chairman Rep. James 
A. Haley, D-Fla. , was made dur­ing hearings on the Alaska native land claims here May 7. 
"With this (Alaska) legislation, we should settle all such problems (of conflicting rights), namely by extinguishing them by payment," said Meeds. 
Meeds described the controversy arising in his own state of Wash­ington over Indian exercise of fish­ing rights. He acknowledged that fishing rights there derived from 

STILL AN INDIAN ART 
Maurice Picard, Jr., (Huron) worh in his father's canoe shop at Village Huron, Quebec. The Hurons were famous canoe makers..This Indian invention has never been improved upon. 
federal compacts with several tribes but stated that concern over the depletion of fish in the state's waterways made such study im­perative. 
"Some Indians are stringing seines across our rivers and taking more fish than is beneficial, and these nets provide no escapement," he said. "It's my feeling those rights should be extinguished and they should be paid." 
Treaties negotiated with Wash­ington state Indians during 1854-55 guarantee their right to fish in "usual and accustomed places" be­yond reservation limits. 
Meeds stated that his concern 
was directed toward commercial 
Indian fishing, not "subsistence" 
fishing. But, he added, when a 
species of wildlife faces extinction, 
the "situation must be examined 
with great care." 
Puget Sound Indians Launch Offensive 
SEATTLE, WASH. (AIPA): Seattle area Indians have launched a "spring offensive" against city officials and Sen. Henry M. J ackson, D-Wash., over Fort Lawton, after Indians rejected token acreage chosen with­out their consultation for a multi­purpose center. 
The city denied the r equest of United Indians of All Tribes (UIAT) for 35 acres of pr operty looking over Puget Sound and the Cascade Mts. Instead, the city offered them a sloping area without a view in a heavily wooded section of the 425 acres of surplus property. 
Religions of the Puget Sound na­tives are closely bound up with the spirits of the waters and w such as Raven and Whale. DIA proposed multi-purpose center signed by Colville artist 1; Reyes, includes areas for ce monies and song, craft shops museum and a meeting facili~ 
The Department of Health cation and Welfare has ent~rec1 request for 35 acres for I disposition with the General vices Administration, which the duty to supervise the dis of surplus military property. 
The Bureau of Indian Affairs 
mid-winter telegramed a "show ­interest" in the property for I disposition. Bernie Whitebear, p sident of United Indians, cha "political pressure" from Sen.J son forced the BIA to withdraw 
request. 
UIAT's "spring offensive" begin with public hearings be! the Seattle Human Rights C mission where Indian griev against the city's negotiating sition will be aired. 
Whitebear stated that a Was ton State Minorities Commt Against Jackson is in process formation. "Every minority here is displeased with him," Whitebear. "National publicity f minorities of his own state sway every minority in the cou and he needs the minority vo he's going to run in 1972." 
Council Chairman Killed In Air Crash 
SELLS, ARIZ. (AIPA): 
Segundo, Tribal Council Chai 
at Papago Indian Territory 
was killed in the crash of 
Apache Airlines twin-engine 
near Coolidge, Arizona May 
Segundo was traveling to 
mouth College in New Hamp 
to judge a speech contest. 
Papago students attend the coll 
Segundo, 51, attended P 
schools and the University of 
cago where he studied law. 
He was working as a supe 
for an Oakland, Calif. shipbu 
company when he returned to 
pago Territory for a vacation. 
was confronted with an app 
situation. Drought gripped the 1 
cattle were dying and thousan 
horses were killed to pres 
water. 
Segundo stayed to help his P 
and seven terms as tribal co 
chairman earned him the ende 
title, "Heart of the Papagos. 

r y Horse, of the Oglala Sioux~ is one ofCthe most colorful figures in the history of He was born around 1845 in South His father was a Holy Man and his
(a Brule) was the sister of Chief Spotted In 1 54, young Crazy Horse was living mother's people in the camp of Chief Bear when 2nd Lt. J. L. Gratten, 

his twenty-nine men and two howitzers, the Brule village, killing several Indians mortally wounding Conquering Bear. The responded by wiping out Gratten and his The reason for this little episode was the 
a single cow. the Gratten incident, young Crazy Horse live with his uncle, Chief Spotted Tail. 
ptember 3, 1855, General w. s. Harney the innocent village in revenge for the n Massacre. " Three years later Crazy Ho witnessed the unprovoked attack' of the al~y on a Cheyenne camp on the Solo­
er m Kansas. Within a five-year period 
oung Oglala had seen unprovoked assaults b; 
• ~my on three different villages. Be-this, Crazy Horse was destined to be-of the United States' bitterest foes. 
1 65 , . Crazy Horse participated in his first agamst the white man. In 1864 the Chey­e~ on the warpath in revenge' for the Massacre. They attacked and de­~l~ost every isolated ranch and settle-O orado. Crazy Horse took part in one ~ta~lts on Julesburg, burning the town. 
65, he led his band of Oglalas in cu~ of the Loafer Sioux at Horse Creek er days later (July 25) successfully at~ 
\ agon tra· d ·
F t m an its cavalry escort within or Laramie. al e~ Crazy Horse distinguished himself in 
His most spectacular success came when he 
lured Captain William J • Fetterman to disaster. 
The arrogant Captain had boasted that with eighty 
men he would slide across the whole Sioux Nation. 
On December 21, he was given the command -0f 
eighty-one men to relieve a woodcutting party 
under attack by Crazy Horse. 
Crazy Horse and his nine warriors tricked 
Fetterman into attacking them and crossing over 
the Lodge Ridge Trail into an ironclad trap. 
Fetterman was breaking orders (he had been or­
dered not once but three different times by Colonel 
Carrington, Commander of Fort Kearny, to cross 
the Lodge Ridge Trail "under no circumstances!") 
but he charged blindly into ambush. Within min­
utes, Fetterman's entire command was wiped out 
by the forces of Chief Hump and Crazy Horse 
under Red Cloud. 
. Eventually, in spite of reversals in the Hay­
field and Wagon Box fights, the Sioux won their 
war against the United States. In 1868, after the 
Bozeman Trail had been abandoned and its forts 
burned, Red Cloud signed the Second Treaty of 
Fort Laramie. Red Cloud never went on the 
Warpath again, but Crazy Horse did not trust the 
white men and he vowed to fight as long as 
necessary in order to remain free. Sometime in 
1870, the personal split between Crazy Horse and 
R d Cl d b
e ou ecame permanent. 
In 1872, when the Northern Pacific Railroad began to survey the Powder River country, Crazy 
Kearn/~em_ents against the command of Fort Horse and Sitting Bull joined forces and co­+llJt unng the War on the Bozeman Trail. ordinated several successful attacks against the ~t4.i III ... (Continued on the next page) 

,,,,, ....... ......................... ttt+......... ............ 
troops escorting the survey teams, forcing them to stop their work. But in June of the following year, the survey teams returned with a much stronger escort under the command of Colonel 
D. S. Stanley. The expedition had nearly 2,000 men, including ten companies of cavalry under the command of Lt. Colonel George Armstrong Custer. During this expedition, Crazy Horse and Custer clashed for the first time in several sharp but inconsequential skirmishes. After this expe­dition was completed, the army built Fort Abra­ham Lincoln near Bismarck on the western side of the Missouri River, with Custer in command. 
On July 2, 1874, Custer led another expedition into the Powder River Country. This expedition, like the two before it, was in clear violation of the sixteenth article of the Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868, which stated that no white man could enter the unceded Indian Territory without the permission of the Indians. On this excursion, Custer's duty was twofold: first, he had to find a suitable site somewhere in the Black Hills to build a fort, and, second, he was to check out the rumors that the area contained gold. This time, there was no attempt to stop the expedition and Custer returned to Fort Lincoln within two months with the news that the Black Hills were filled with gold. 
The adventurers and prospectors poured into the Black Hills by the hundreds, and it soon be­came obvious that the Indians would have to give up their sacred hills to the greed of the Ameri­cans. In September, 1875, Commissioners arrived at the Red Cloud Agency for a council with the Sioux Chiefs concerning the purchase of the Black Hills. The meeting ended inconclusively with Red Cloud demanding $600,000, 000 and the Com sioners offering only $6, 000, 000. The Com sioners returned to Washington, demanding the Sioux be given a taste of American stre On December 6th, the Commissioner of Inct Affairs ordered all Indians to report to respective agencies by January 31, 1876, or declared hostile. The order was not only realistic, but was unnecessary. Only one 8 band complied, and the Federal government clared war on the great Sioux Nation. 
In March, General George Crook led a PUni expedition out against the "hostiles." On the 17 Colonel J. J. Reynolds came across the band Northern Cheyenne under Two Moons, which on its way to comply with the order to rep Reynolds attacked the Cheyenne, but the warri took to the bluffs and from such a natural fense routed the cavalry. The defeated troo deserted their dead and wounded, and the en expedition returned to Fort Fetterman. Beca of the rout, Colonel Reynolds was from his command for a year. 
Two Moons and his Northern Cheyenne forces with Crazy Horse and Sitting Bull, and April at the Council of Chalk Buttes, Crazy Ho was Supreme Chief of the Oglalas. In May, greatest campaign ever waged against the pl Indians began to take shape. From For t Linc General Alfred Terry marched out with 1, 207 followed by Custer with 600 men. From F Ellis, Colonel John Gibbons marched south some 500 men, while General Crook mare north from Fort Fetterman with 1,300 str The combined force of 3, 600 men was conve on the Powder River area from three diffe directions. (Continued on page eighteen) 
This is a photo of the only painting of the Battle fa I I en I on g-h a i red f i gu re a t I e f t c en t e r. The f0 of the Little Bighorn created by an actual eye­standing Indians are Sitting Bull, Rain -i n-the Fae witness. Sioux Chief Kicking Bear made this painting Crazy Horse and Kicking Bear . (Southwest Museulll at the request of Fredric Remington. Custer is the 
pentioned For ace Mission 
DC (AIPA): An 
}II GTO ' of. P·acific North-r rib~ ~~ouhas petitioned the India_ to send a peace­ation_s to Cooks Inlet on 
mission W h 
. River between as ­1urnbi~ gon to protect the n and . ref shermen and their
1
of Indian 
· hich calls itself the rou~ , ,. of the Columbia,
Indians G
ked u Secretary en-
oT~ant to establish a per­~merican Indian delegate "\. ·,, and to -~ssist ~he g~ou~ 11 in bringmg their griev 
inst the states of Wash­nd Oregon befo~e the World t The Hague, Netherlands. 
. that mterrerence w1tn
r in • 
0 fi bing by the two s~ates 1s ol tion of several treaties be-n th . s. ?over~ment and ,.,n1rtn,,,,..,:~t tribes signed m 1854-55' roup stated that it _sought tion from the "economic and genocide'' arising out of 
r nforceme nt practices against fi hermen in both states. 0 articles in the UN's Uni­
Declaration of Human Rights th legal basis for the re­of the UN peace-keeping lon . The two Articles con­the · right to a standard of nd a right to a grievance 
before an independent and 1 tribunal. de in New York stated 
ecretary General had not 
ed the petition, and indi­po sible referral of the pe­to the U. S. government as 
internal matter. " 
t Cooks Inlet have as a of such state policies re­to a form of guerrilla fish­urvive, 11 the petition stated. 
r men have armed themselves If-protection. 11 ppeal cited the breakup and ldozing of an Indian fishing camp authorities near Tacoma 
h. • in the autumn of 1970 and r cent near -fatal night shooting Hank Adams, 29, executive di­
l r of the Survival of American n As n. , near Tacoma as . ce of ' criminal attack The
ion h · II 
. c arged that state police
11 
to investigate the assault 
nd
m a instead cast doubt te timony concerning the
00 1n• . 

HOWARD BR UNJE, Academic head of Stewart Indian School, informs four students they have just been selected as the honor graduates of 1971. Teachers will vote for valedictorian and salutatorian on the basis of leadership, citizenship, dependability, and service. Left to right are Brunje, Theodore Pavatea, Hopi-Tewa from Polacca, Arizona; Rosemary Moristo, and Juanita Parvello, both Papagoes from Sells, Arizona; and Bryson Ami, Hopi from Polacco, Arizona. The Tribal Spokesman 

''Sign Language -No Work['' 
Leo Alexander, 45 , one of seven signers of the UN petition, said his group had received full support from the Umatilla tribe of Oregon. Calling his group "more or less militant," he said intertribal back­ing was "not completely necessary." 
"But if we win, everybody wins," said Alexander. "What we are asking is a fair and equitable share of the fish. We're trying to establish seasons and standards which will govern the states in the regulation of Indian fishing." 
At issue is the dwindling supply of salmon, object of commercial fishing by Japan and Russia in the Pacific Ocean as well as U.S. commercial fleets and individual non-Indian sportsmen. 
The Cooks Inlet Indians began fishing a week in advance of the state-imposed opening of the fish­ing season. Boats and nets be­longing to the Indian fishermen were confiscated, and as of April 29 a total of six persons had been arrested in Klickitat County, Wash­ington. 
The Cooks Inlet Indians, said Alexander, asked support both in their appeal to the UN and in the collection of bail funds. 
Alexander said nearly 1,500 per­sons had visited Cooks Inlet since the UN appeal April 19 in order to examine the "difficulties on the 
river." _________ 
Comanche Honored 
LAWTON, OKLA. (AIP A): Harry Alan Tahsequah, 16, Comanche, from Chattanooga, Okla., great, great grandson of Quanah Parker, was awarded the Boy Scout Life Saving Medal by Rep. Tom Steed 
(D. Okla.) at ceremonies here. Tahsequah saved the life of a friend trapped in a collapsed build­ing. 


"TODAY IS A GOOD DAY TO FIGHT," CRAZY HORSE SHOUTED AT 
HIS  WARRIORS  AT  THE  LITTLE  BIGHORN,  "TODAY  IS  A GOOD  
DAY  TO  DIE!  COWARDS  TO  THE  REAR;  LAKOTAS  FOLLOV/ ME!"  
by  ROBERT  ANDREW MEIGS  
(Ch er o kee-Choe t aw)  

about 12: 07 on the afternoon of June when Lt. Colonel George Armstrong76ght his regiment, the 7th Cavalry, to

brou f h t · k
the headwaters o w a 1s now nown creek. Turning to his adjutant, Lt. Cooke, he quickly divided his 637 three combat battalions and a pack train in ° orders to the effect that the battalion command of Captain Frederick W. Ben­proceed to the Southwest to look for 
attack in the next valley. 
battalion under the command of Maj or Reno crossed the creek and maintained course with Custer's Battalion on the Reno had 112 soldiers plus several and about 25 Indian scouts while Custer men or so. Both battalions followed the Reno's Creek until about 2: 10 P. M. came upon a solitary tepee containing scaffold, the body of a dead Sioux war­Arikara scouts quickly burned the te­
ground. then, Frank Girard, a civilian interpreter, dust cloud about five miles away 
on the other side of the Little Bighorn River. "Here are your Indians," he said to Custer, "run­ning like devils." Custer then ordered his Indian scouts after the supposed fleeing Sioux but they refused. Custer then turned to Cooke and had him take an order to Reno. . "General Custer directs ·that you take as fast a gait as you deem prudent," the adjutant told Reno, "charge the Indian village. You will be supported by the whole outfit." Reno then pro­ceeded westward following the creek until it joined the Little Bighorn. He then forded the river and prepared his · men to attack the southern end of the Indian encampment. Custer, in the meantime j had turned his battalion northward riding along at a gallop in order to attack the Indians from the opposite direction at the same time. 
What Custer and Reno did not know was that the Indians were not only aware of the movements of the 7th Cavalry but were also very confident of certain victory. On June 17, just eight days before, Crazy Horse had defeated General George Crook on Rosebud Creek with fewer men than Crook had. Custer was not only unaware of that 
(Continued on the next page) 

b;.:: ttle or its outcome, but he was also m1sm­formed ibout the number of warriors in the camp. Before ~he expedition had set out General Sperman had esti.:.nated that there were around 900 braves in the Powder River Country. Custer figured that he would meet around 1,500 warriors. Both estimates were wrong. 
This Indian camp was the largest ever assembled on the western plains. There were around 1, 500 lodges, wickiups and temporary shelters stretched along the western side of the Little Bighorn for some three miles. There were probably nearly 12, 000 Indians in the camp with something like 2,500 to 3,000 warriors. The people in the camp included parts of every Sioux band plus some Northern Cheyenne and Arapahoe. The principal leaders of the assembled bands were Gall, Crow King and Sitting Bull of the Hunkpapas, Hump, leader of the Minneconjous, Spotted Eagle of the Sans Arcs, Two Moons of the Northern Cheyenne and Crazy Horse, Supreme Chief of the Oglalas. On this day Gall and Crazy Horse would conduct 
the more spectacular aspects of the conflict. 
When the people in the encampment were sure that the village would be attacked the warriors rallied to their respective leaders and prepared a counteroffensive. The women and children were herded into the main camp while some of the warriors began riding back and forth to create a dust cloud to screen the camp. (Many years later Black Elk, an Oglala Holy Man, would re­call that the first time he was aware of the white soldiers was when a Sioux crier ran through the village shouting, "The Chargers are coming! They are charging! The Chargers are coming!") 
About 500 warriors rode out to meet Reno's assault while the rest of the braves prepared to greet Custer. Sitting Bull made a short speech to the young men in camp: "Warriors, we have everything to fight for, and if we are defeated, we shall have nothing to live for; therefore, let us fight like brave men. " Gall's speech to the warriors meeting Reno was even shorter: "Take courage! Don't be a woman! The helpless are out of breath!" 
It was about 3: 05 in the afternoon when Reno began his advance toward the village on the Little 
Bighorn. His three companies ward the encampment but he probably c Ul see the camp's real size because of t~ d screen. Suddenly, from out of that dust e came Gall and his screaming warriors ~l out to meet Reno. Within minutes Reni, talion was in rout. The braves chased R s 
h. th · k·11 · eno
1s men across e river 1 mg or woundi least half of Reno's troops. 
Leaving at least 400 warriors to hold where he was, Gall returned to the camp to another group of warriors against the Custe talion. About the time Reno first began hl vance on the village, Custer had gotten his8 glimpse of the encampment and had some 
about its true size. He then sent a mess back to get Benteen and the pack train in to reinforce his own strength. About 3: 25 p Custer again saw the village and this tune was certain that he would need the extra He gave an order to Cooke who wrote it out had the trumpeter, John Martin, deliver Benteen. The message read: "Benteen--­
"Come on, Big village. 
Be quick. Bring packs. 
W. W. Cooke. 
P. S. Bring Packs." 
Custer then followed the ridge until he to Medicine Tail Creek. He then charged di toward the camp. But just as he reached marshy area of the Little Bighorn, Gall di a mass assault which not only checked C advance but actually forced the ill-fated ba to fall back and change its course. In the time, Crazy Horse was leading the Oglalas, enne and Arapahoe warriors to the northe extreme of the camp in order to meet before he could reach the ford and cros river, attacking the camp. 
"Today is a good day to fight," Crazy shouted to his warriors at the Little B "Today is a good day to die! Cowards to rear; Lakotas, follow me!" With that the Oglala chief charged across the river wt warriors, forming a wedge behind him. was now caught in the steel jaws of a Gall was behind the battalion and Craz"y 

· es and reservations the Indians came , he th~e;cw,ar was near. Never before had such a 
,ng of warriors gathered --Crazy Horse , re numb/,rtting Bull , Gall , Hump , Black Moon , Crow 
1 Road, 

. front of it. Companies L and I were t by Gall's warriors while Crazy Horse ~emaining three companies with the force 
cyclone. 
last of Custer's battalions rallied around commander on a high ridge, since named Hill. In desperation, the troopers shot horses to use as breastworks while the masses of Indians steadily finished off oldiers not within the immediate circle on Many of the men never had a chance. bad been caught in the ravines and slaugh­by warriors firing down on them from the Others were simply picked off by Indian mans hip as they attempted to break away. end, there were only those on that famous ith Custer, firing away as fast as they reload. But eventually, a warrior was able over the crest of the hill, and then r, and another, until the ridge was swarm­ith a mass of men, struggling in hand-to-hand There, amid the choking dust and smoke, t of Custer's Battalion stood and fought 
the Battle of the Little Bighorn was far 
o er. At the time Gall was hurrying over Custer, Benteen, having found no Indians 
ck as he had been ordered, was on his catch up with Custer and Reno. About so, he had met Custer's first messenger minutes later he met the second messen­
ith the note from Cooke. Rushing to Cus­rescue, he came across Reno's men around p · L who had entrenched on the side of a 
Kin~ . Spotted Eagle , Fa s t Bui I , Touch the Clouds , Two Moons , Old Bear -even the old Santee warrior , lmpaduta , joined them -al I great warriors , chiefs , or medicine men. 
hill. Reno ran out to meet Benteen and pfoadad: "For God's sake, Benteen, halt your command and help me. I've lost half my men!" 
As the shooting from the Indians began to slack off, the men on the hill could hear gunfire from a distance, indicating another battle elsewhere. Captain Thomas B. Weir led a company of troops to the top of a hill about a mile from their pre­vious position to see what was going on. Ben­teen followed with three more companies to give support, but Reno stayed behind waiting for the Pack Train. On the hill, Weir and Benteen could see that a battle was taking place about four miles to the north. 
When Reno and his men were rejoined by the Pack Train, he led them up to the hill where all the forces could be reunited. While they were on the hill, however, a large number of warriors attacked, and the soldiers had to withdraw to their former positions. The Indians then com­
pletely encircled-the troops. Throughout the night 
the warriors kept the soldiers pinned down as 
the troopers worked at digging trenches and build­
ing defense works. 
Throughout the next day, there were skirmishes 
here and there, but scouts for the Indians re­
ported a large military column approaching from 
the north. It was General Terry and Colonel 
Gibbon with some 1,700 men plus artillery. The 
great village began to fold its tents and· herd its 
ponies together while the warriors withdrew from 
the siege ou the hill. By dusk, the entire en­
campment had disappeared and the Battle of the 
Little Bighorn was history. 

CONQUEST Of ABORIGINAL LAN DS:PART 
·:· ·:. v, 



::: THE =~ OHIO VALLEY}EXPLOITATION 
by RUDY JAY CASAZZA 
(SENECA)
; RESERVATION :i:

• 
Oh hear my Red rock, 
.. 
.:. .:. .:. Daytime 
CHRIS LANE 
(CHEROKEE) 
words, oh hear my cry sand and earth so dry 
h eat, a scorching hel1 
.~. See my people, a walking shell .:. Nightimes cold, a great blue sphere .:. Bitter cold, as the hearts that put me here .:. 
•~i•:. I look in the sky' the stars I see are 
•:• Numbered wishes for my people and me 
~t Babies born in this cruel land know 
io 
.:. Not a world they'll understand 
~.· 
•:• 
For when told of 

•:• 
What good are words ::: When you are ·hot, 


• 
M

•i• 
Y son, 


,. 
••• •:. .:. For .:. 
%. ::: 
.~. 
.:. 
tte t 
old use to be to paint a tree? when you thirst h f" t 
ma rs no you were ere irs 
yol}r sin was not ignorance, 
But in believing his words Even before They were taught to you 
•:• Oh hear. my words, oh hear my cry:i: Red rock, sand and earth so dry:!: Is my only hope a liquid flame 
..•. That burns my 
•:. 
.:. 
..%. I 1
: s my on y
•t That tells my ••• Oh hear my 
.:. Red rock,
.:. 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
y : 
y
y
y 
throat and steals my name? 
' 1
escape my womans oom past and foretells my doom? words, oh hear my cry sand and earth so dry 
y 
Editor's Note: If Part VII appears voluminous •:• 
.•. panding to three issues), it is because the exp\ tation of the Ohio Valley lasted through the ten .:.of three Presidents, an era of more than twe years. Such an epoch in Indian history cannot
. •••~. 
.:. written off in one chapter, nor, for that matter one book. •
.:. 
~ 
.~. President Jefferson, who admired and even 
..~. fended the principles of the Native American, sh ..~. more compassion for the aboriginal than did his .,:. predecessors. Although he was responsible for .:. definite mitigation of westward expansion, he .:. organize one of the Nation's greatest exploitati .:. of the American Indian . .:. What fifth grader is not familiar with the
~i• 
of Zebulon Pike, Meriwether Lewis, and Will 
•(_ Clark? How they penetrated and "explored" the w
•t is one of the best white-washed, brainwashed e 
o sodes in American history and literature. Wbli• historians have failed to record that these
; explorations were, in reality, exploitations; and 
• mission, no matter how ostensibly peaceful, w ~:• in reality, military; and a definite reconnaiss 
•:• of Indian lands. Each "expedition" was purpo =~= restricted in number, so that the Indians would 
• 
think of it as an invasion. The leaders were co

•i• 
missioned officers, the men were privates, and ,•••.complete expeditions were conducted by the Uni 


%. States Army. The plan was not only sanctioned ::: the commander in chief, but was organized 
.:• Th,om_as .Jefferson. (Continued ~• . 

=~= · · · ·, · . 1tt. 
.~. i 'ii .
.~. --I 
•!• ~~9Jj
-k -~ , -~·-~: •,·
:i: ·, ~-· ~ ,, ·~ :!: ·•1~ -~--_ · -:i.,··
J:i 
...•. .. ~• 
.: h--·• \\~ '\ ­
•:: ~ ~~ 
..-. I • r . ,
: ~ •·, .... : -, ,,.. • 
•:. t1ij' \~i: •:_ 
•:• ~·.~ ·~/)(l 1 ­
••• • ~-It_
••• ... .-_~ ;•"v'' 
.:. ', 
~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
y : 
y
y 
~ 
on next page ) 
L~-­
Signing of the Treaty of Green Ville; Little Turtle, Anthony Wayne, et al. 
t' ons of Lewis and p1ora i a force of twenty­iJlcluded traveled up the l·vates ' h R k
D pr . er crossed t e oc y
ri }tlV d' followed the Co­n , an to Astoria, Oregon Ri er the return, the cifiC); 0 O . ncluded the area 
ance i . L . 
~nm~·--iontana. While ew1s D ral exploiting the areas 1 rk e er:iissouri, Lieutenant th.k of the 1st Infantry, on p1 el,oitations : one north-
o exp t
the other, southwes . . !orations were the first 
P rmy encountered that tbele tribe, the Sioux, soon r,,uua1;;~_w chief enemy. In sepa­
l •ctents Lewis and Clark
inCl ' . h h 
1 asant encounters wit t e u_ bu~ it would be Zebulon Pike ould shamefully swindle from 'be 100, ooo acres of rich ~~ining the Mississippi and 
Rivers. 
historians have listed the ntures of these men as explo­or expeditions, to record r ds, note natural resources, ri ers, and establish friendly on with Indian tribes. Indian ri can justly call these ions exploitations, and the journals of that day do purposes as: conducting reconnaissances, listing to build forts, mapping routes up and down the and impressing upon the nd foreign powers within rritory the fact that the tates was sole owner of nd in dispute. The swindle 100,000 acres of land from the must certainly be termed 
loi tion, not exploration! President was well pleased 
results of the exploitations. ho ficer received, as a reward, 0 cres of Indian lands; each 
as rewarded 320 acres 
0 
1 0 
land; and so well pleased President that he doubled for everyone...except; of for the Indian scout, Saca­Her reward for assisting ers was that she was al­to return to her people in Rocky ountains ! Lieutenant career soldier who even­
ill came a Brigadier General 
ed at the Battle of York' ~ on April 27, 1812. I~0G to the rewards, Lewis was ; ernor of the new Terri­. o years later he was murdered or a suicide-it:r ~~ly determined. Clark i a ri_g~dier General of the iihtia, and upon the 
death of Lewis, he became both 
Governor and Superintendent of In­
dian Affairs. The year was 1813, 
a year after Louisiana became the 
Missouri Territory. 
As a military operation, the ex­ploitations were conducted with an astonishingly low casualty rate. One sergeant died of disease, one soldier deserted, and two were dismissed. However, there were many injuries, including one to Lewis, but none were fatal to the white man. There were skirmishes with the Indians in which some were killed. 
The exploitations had cleared the way for white conquest of the west. The door was ajar for the final campaign of annihilation against the Indian. However, the Indian had no intention of surrendering his land; to get through to the west, the white man would have to cross the Mississippi and confront one more determined Indian stand in the lands that had been his domain since the sun did begin. The Shawnee Chief, Tecumseh, one of the greatest Indian warriors, would momentarily block the march of "manifest destiny" of the white man. 
NEXT: TECUMSEH, and the War of 1812 
New Publication Records Iroquois Peace Laws 
AKWESASNE, N. Y. -The White Roots of Peace of the Mohawk Na­tion has published the Great Law of Peace of the People of the Long­house. 
The booklet contains the instruc­tions for governing the Iroquois Confederacy and spells out various ceremonial procedures. 
Some meaning is lost by transla­tion into English but the publica­tion is offered as a starting point for disGussion until a sanctioned trans­lation is available. The Constitution of the United States has roots in this Iroquois Constitution. 
The Michigan Supreme Court has ruled that Indians are protected by century-old treaties granting them unlimited hunting and fishing rights even if they violate present state game laws. 
The 7-0 decision came when the court overturned the conviction of a full-blooded Chippewa man ar­rested in 1965 for taking four trout from Keeweenaw Bay on Lake Superior. 
WITHOUT RESERVATION . • • • J w 
~ 
"Remember, we're not taking prisoners when we go into the Little Big Horn." 


two Spears was a vital healthy brave. His gashed wounds healed rapidly, but his heart did not. Each graceful movement and each soft touch of ·the fair maiden shot arrows to the center of his heart. Two Spears had at long last lost a major battle. Four day-lights following Two-Spears .awakening in the Dakota Chief's hunting lodge, the ardent lovers waited. On the morning of the fifth day-light, union of Two Spears and Wah-nee-pe was consummated. The fair maiden had never suffered such an attack of love in all her short life. She determined to have this mighty huntsman as her man and where there is a will there is a way. Chief Killer-of-Bulls of the Dakotas arrived with his band of huntsman-warriors on the evening of the tenth day-light. The chief was angry that his daugh­ter, an expert at hunting and prairie survival, had not returned to the lodge of her parents. Nearing the camp, Killer-of-Bulls noted his hunting lodge was occupied. Smoke, in lazy curls, was drifting from the lodge vent. In great anger, Chief Killer-of-Bulls entered his lodge to be confronted with the largest of grizzly bear pelts he had ever seen. The pelt was so huge, it divided the lodge in halves as it hung from opposite lodge poles. Wah-nee-pe greeted her father with a warm hug before the astonished chief could recover his voice. "Greetings, great chief, and my father. I am pleased to present my warrior-huntsman husband, Clawed-by­Bear." Wah-nee-pe held the bear hide to one side, per­mitting Clawed-by-Bear to stride to his wife's side. Clawed-by-Bear stood before his astounded father­in-law. He was nude except for a brief breechcloth at his waist. The four deep and scarlet claw marks across his huge chest shown vividly in the sunlight. 
TWO 



SPEARS 
TAKES A BRIDE 
SMOKEY SILE NT FOX (SIOUX ) 
"Your husband?" the chief questioned in dis "but how could you? He is badly wounded as plainly see." 
"Our union has been consummated," the daughter continued. "I bear his child even though no visible evidence can be seen. Where is a desire_, father, there is a way. We are tain. " Secretly, the great Dakota chief was del He knew his daughter well. If she desired thiS' the chief knew she would have him. 
The remainder of the day was spent in and planning. The chief desired to know hi son-in-law, and Clawed-by-Bear wished ferve know and understand the Dakota chief. 
Runners with heavy packs of meat were dis to the camp of Clawed-by-Bear. They c Clawed-by-Bear's hair band to identify them Po ta warn ah me. 
The Dakota runners followed directions and a given them by Clawed-by-Bear. They had no lem finding the lodges of the P o ta warn ah me Dakotas told of the great battle between the grizzly and Clawed-by-Bear and of the latter' tory. They also told of the courtship and c mation in wedlock of Wah-nee-pe and Clawed-by­Much sly laughter and many winks were passed teller to listener whenever the courtship and riage stories were retold. 
Two day-lights passed and the village Po ta warn ah me departed for the meeting wi Dakotas. E-very man, woman, and child d in a long line, walking one and two abreast the thick woods. Fortified with good meat newed strength, they walked swiftly, singi chatting. The people were happy. 
ian Records . National Archives 
D C -Where would 
N
tll GTO ' • f 1 I
find accounts o ear y n-to . ? Or to learn the cost of 
tie . I d' 
. 18237 Or other n 1an 
•~rt of a distant past? . P wers to such quest10ns an worth millions of dollars. 
don governmental agree­it~ Indian tribes. In m?st, all ca es, the agr~ements 1m­
gnition of the tribes as hav­d ee of sovereignty. Bureau of Indian Affairs_ is . •nal ource of most Indian 
n. The BIA is required by l~w 
•n in indefinitely those official 
I • tb"f
hat it determmes o e o urin alue." . major records a~e ~eld m the 
rchives Bmldmg. They _ _, .. .,41:!,, thou ands of cubic feet of per , decisions, treaties, ther documentary materials c n never be considered ex-
u . They directly affect the 
of Indian people and are of in­in ere t not only to Indians 
o ernment officials, students, anUtirOJ:>ologi t , lawyers and histo­nificance. To find those who are eli­
gible as descendants of tribes settl­
ing treaty claims, researchers must 
examine not only the treaty, but 
many other documents such as cen­
sus data, annuity rolls, tribal rolls, 
and military muster rolls of relo­
cated Indians. 
The Indian Claims Commission is 
also a regular user of the national 
Indian archives. The Commission is 
a judicial body established to adju­
dicate hundreds of tribal claims 
against the government for financial 
redress for lands taken from them in 
the 18th and early 19th centuries. 
At the end of 1970, the Indian 
Claims Commission had completed 
work on 327 of 609 dockets, or sub­
petitions of Indian claims. Congress 
has appropriated more than $330 
million to Indians as a result of 
Commission awards. 
The Art Of 
Story Telling 
The art of story telling is a necessary outlet for the Indian's imagination because they had no books. It livens up their social life in the evening around a glow­ing wood fire during the long win­ter nights. Every gesture has its meaning, no faintest shade of which is lost upon the attentive listeners. 
True stories of warfare and the chase are told many times over and over by actors so that details will be remembered forever. They are handed down from generation to generation and are gradually proportioned to heroic myth and legend. They flourish into poetry and chivalry and are alive with mystery and magic. The pictures are vivid. Often animals as well as men are the villains and heroes, thus a gr otesque humor is artfully developed. 
A long time ago, it was cus­tomary for each clan to have its own official storyteller whose skill built up a reputation even in neigh­boring villages. He was not only an entertainer but an honored schoolmaster to the children. The secret of his success was his abi­lity to portray a character or situ­ation in truth but with a humorous touch or dramatic exaggeration. The scene is clearly visualized, the action moves quickly, with suc­cessive events leading up to the climax, which must be handled with muct dignity and seriousness. 
THE CHANT OF THE ANCIENT ONES 
SMOKEY S IL ENT FOX 
(SI OU X) 
A very dear friend lost her brother to the One Above. That fact alone does not stir much thought until the fact that she is of mixed American Indian and Eur opean blood is known. Along with that -knowledge comes the awareness of the problem of two cultures. The funeral was a typi­cal Caucasian ceremony and my friend conducted herself admirably throughout the proceedings. The formal proceedings did not suffice , however. She felt that there was something sadly lacking in the for­mal goodbye to her brother, and the Chant of the Ancient Ones came to her. 
The Chant is in the form of a prayer and so very little is known of the prayer and words. It is for the departed loved one and speaks of the depths of love the American Indian has for his family. 
Just at sunset, my friend climbed to the top of a low hill, addressed the four directions and sang the following prayer : 
Oh Great Spirit, my heart cries out to night It is lonely for a loved one Who has gone beyond To the loving arms of the 
Great  Mystery  
I I  know he He is in see him Into the  finds such smile arms  peace gentle as he of the  there hands walks Great  

Spirit 
There is a light about him As he lifts on the wings of the bird 
To the haunting sphere of the Master He smiles though he speaks not a word. He is happy. He is content. I loved him so. 
71 

CR A Z Y H O R S E 
~Ji E ? 
(9'ntinued from pa_~~ eight) from ~ag[ .two ) 
In the meantime, the various hostile bands Have you ever wondered why the all were also beginning to converge upon the same philosophers have never stumbled onto :::d general area. . On June 17th, Crazy Horse met way of Indian life? Is it perhaps that 11 
and defeated Crook on Rosebud Creek about 
twenty-five miles east of the Little Bighorn. The 
clashing forces had been nearly equal in strength, 
but Crazy Horse beat Crook so badly that the 
General was immobilized from June 19th to August 
5th. In the meantime, Custer ran right into the 
combined forces on the Little Bighorn after he, 
himself, had divided his men into four different 
units. On June 25, 1876, about a week after 
the signing of the Declaration of Independence, 
Crazy Horse and Gall led their warriors to the 
most spectacular Indian victory on the plains. 
The 7th cavalry lost over half of its 600 men 
and its commanding officer in the various en­
gagements which made up the Battle of the Little 
Bighorn. 
Since the beginning of this war, the U.S. Army had lost every battle to the Indians, but now at the height of their success, the great Indian con­federacy split up. Some of the bands returned to reservations, others joined up with peaceful tribes and disappeared. Sitting Bull and Gall led their people to Canada, but a few of the bands decided to fight it out. On January 9, 1877, the last battle of the campaign took place at Slim Buttes where Chief American Horse was slain. Only Crazy Horse Remained to be captured or killed. Finally, General Crook managed to con­vince the Oglala chief that continued resistance would be useless. On May 6th, Crazy Horse and eight hundred of his people surrendered to Crook at Camp Robinson, Nebraska. 
Unfortunately, there were Indians who had re­mained at peace with the white men, who hated Crazy Horse and were jealous of him. A rumor was started by the enemies of Crazy Horse that the Oglala wanted to go on the warpath again. In response to this and other bits of misinfor­mation, on September 4, 1877, Crook sent eight companies of cavalry to arrest Crazy Horse who had gone to the Spotted Tail Agency. The young warrior returned to Fort Robinson without resis­tance, but when he realized that he was about to be locked up in the guardhouse, he drew his knife and attempted to cut his way to freedom. An Indian named Little Big Man held Crazy Horse's arms while other Indians attempted to hold him down. A guard then stabbed a bayonet into the young chief's back, fatally wounding him. 
"Let me go, my friends," Crazy Horse pleaded, "You have hurt me enough." That night, shortly before he died, the young warrior told his father: "My father, I am badly hurt. Tell the people it is no use to depend on me any more now. " 

JUNE 1971 
its many forms is so simple and self-tru.
1
no one has noticed its existence? Let~v dent one finds it! s 
Henry David Thoreau was perhaps close thought than anyone realizes: "If a man :a:: woods for love of them half each day be danger of being regarded as a loafer_:but spends his whole day as a speculator she those woods and making earth bald before : he is esteemed as an industrious and ent,eer 
citizen. rp 
We Indians have an identity-the most all the world. We had a concept of deismUni longer than the Jews who are attributed t tC God idealism. In contrast to the Great ~ 
1
the Jewish God, read the Old Testament. p rit 
"Jehovah," to my way of thinking emerg terrible monster guilty of every crime eves ceived by the devious mind of mankind. e~ never honored nor kept a bargain nor cov agreed upon by his "chosen" people. Does sound familiar to you, Red brother? Almost the United States government and the Indiana the Great Spirit like this? He certainly is 
friends! 
When we pray as Indians, we pray not a the heathens do. Listen, Red brother: "If you me a Cadillac, I'll be good and go to church six months. " "If you do this for me, I'll do 
for you," etc. 
A real Indian's prayer is one of thanks. " you, Great Spirit, for the use of this land, you for my health so that I may be strong for myself, I ask not that you carry my load strength so that I may bear it alone," etc, have no need of complicated theories of nor complex rules of canon laws and regul Such horse manure only serves to alienat.e tbe dian from his Creator. 
So, you say, what has all this to do with ide My friends, all of it has to do with your function, plus origin and cohesiveness with the 
verse.  We  must  have  an  anchor  or a start  
somewhere.  
Now  let  us  get  back  to  earth, since  it is  

have to deal with in practical terms, the ' 
after" can wait. 
We, as Indians with a rich cultural heritage endure in spite of many efforts to destroy us the infamous day at Plymouth Rock. We are 
Eventually, many Indian languages will extinct. (We can only hope it doesn't happen. ) day we must unite and exchange ideas as to course we must follow to avoid complete lation into nothingness. Also, we must pi:-ese a written record our tribes, their be_lie~s, f crafts, and most of all, the unique d1gruty 0 an Indian. 
We can lead and guide others to a be~r standing and possibly a better way of life. my brothers, we have an identity born o~ en f and eons of time. We shall and will bve rl under the protective hand of our Great Spi 



SU BS CRIPT IO~ DONATION FORM 
nclosed i s my sub scr iption donation of Five olla rs ($ 5 .00), Ple a se mail the next twelve i u s of ' 'INDIAN VOICE' ' to: 
CITY: 
--------STATE: _______ ZIP: ___ 
mtf~M~ vetKSfJrO 
P.O. BOX 2033 ~ SAN TA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 

Cherokee Compiles Data On Old Families 
CHOTEAU, 0KLA.-JamesW.Tyner (Cherokee) is preserving the mem­ory of Cherokee people through the compilation of data from more than 600 cemeteries in the Old Cherokee Nation. 
When the fourth volume of his collection is completed, he will have permanently recorded the data of 400 cemeteries. The en tire recording is expected to comprise ten volumes. 
Momaday To Write Script 
HOLLYWOOD, CALIF. -Sagittarius Productions, Inc., has acquired rights to The Man Who Killed the Deer by Frank Waters (published in 1942) for production this fall. 
N. Scott Momaday (Kiowa) who won the Pulitzer prize for his novel House Made of Dawn will write the film script. 
Makah Indian Women Work On Lumber Crew 
NEAH BAY, WAsH.-A number of Makah Indian women are working with a lumber crew as tree thinners in the Makah tribe forest manage­ment project,. financed entirely and supervised by the tribe. 
The women's work consists of chipping several small gashes into trees marked for thinning, and in­serting chemicals into the gashes. The trees die within six weeks. 

''Birds and bees? What about the eagles and ants?'' 
. fall when acorns are
•e 1n 
•. acorns between rocks. Grind •th a fanning bas-
acorns w1
F 
n (The fine parts will stick 
basket.) ut the fine meal into a wooden 
10
• warm water over it 3 or 
0 
.~: to take out bitter tas~ . put acorn meal and water m ooking basket (made of roots 
·iUO\ ). 
Drop ery hot r~ck into it. 
p turning rock with a wooden 
one rock will cook 
O O B RBECUED SALMON 
pit. Put some rocks in­
nd build a fire on them. rocks are heated, cover 
with green leaves. Lay 
on leaves and cover with thick layer of leaves. cover all with a thick 
r of dirt. Let cook 5 hours. e dirt carefully, then the Makes most delicious 
BAKED  FRESH  CORN  
Cut  fresh  corn  off cob.  Place  
a  little  pile  or  layer  in  center  

of a corn husk. Fold husk so as to make a small packet of corn. Bake in moderate oven until husk is brown. 
FRIED DRIED CHOKE 
CHERRIES SIOUX STYLE 
Mash choke cherries, seeds and all. 
Make into patties and sun dry. 
Then take about 4 patties and put into a skillet with water. Cook slowly until water is ab­sorbed and berries are like a dough, then dry in another skil­let in hot bacon fat until heated through. Turn, sprinkle with su­gar, and serve. 
CHOCTAW GREENS, 
ANNIE MARIE STYLE 
Boil favorite greens about 45 minutes. When tender, drain and add 4 eggs. Stir well over very low heat until eggs are just cooked. Serve right away. 


~· 
• 
BALLAD OF BROTHERHOOD
~· 
Remember when you held your head high, 
~· • • And looked toward the blue, blue sky, 
And our Fathers were of a proud breed, 
~· • When they looked up and took their lead.~· • It was only yesteryear 
When we sat down and lent an ear, 
~· 
We took instructions, yes, inde·ed; 'Til the whiteman took his lead. 





~· • • 
• 
Remember when the eagle soared o'er the sky 
~· 
When we had no reason to sit and cry, And the rose on the bush was bright with glory 
~· 
And each of us had our own territory.
~· 
It was only yesteryear When we sat down and lent an ear, 
~·• • • 
We took instructions, yes, indeed; 'Til the whiteman took his lead. 

~· •
~· Oh, we heard that we were wrong 
When we sat around and sang 'our' song 

~· • • 
~· 
Oh, please won't someone understand That all we want is to use good land 

~· • 
• 
It was only yesteryear 
~· 
When we sat down and lent an ear, • We took instructions, yes, indeed; 
~· 
'Til the whiteman took his lead.
• 
Now's the time to open your eyes! 
~· • Don't sit around, accept no lies! 
It's time to sing a brand new song, 
~· 
For without Brotherhood, all will soon be gone.

~· • • 
• 
by GEORGIA ROBERTSON 
~· 
(a Dakota High School student)
~ 
. 
~~·~ ~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~~ 
'm{}J.JMH~~~~
P .O . BOX 2033 SANTA CLARA, CALIF. 9505 1 . 
Return Requested 




