

The following is what I consider to be the opinion of the urban Indian in relation to his non-Indian neighbor. It is presented in refer­ence to the Indians residing in the San Francisco Bay area, of which there is probably a representative of every tribe in North America. Estimates of the Indian population in this area vary considerably­anywhere from 5, 000 to 50,000 individuals. This city has recently become the mecca for Indians as the result of the reclamation and liberation of Alcatraz Island in November of 1969. 
Many Indians arrive from reser­vations in one of two ways; one, the Bureau of Indian Affairs Re­location Program, or two, they come independently. Regardless of the method, most come with pre­conceived ideas and myths of what the big city is supposed to be like. For the majority, however, it is an odyssey of major and some­times frightening proportions. 
The B. I. A. , with its Relocation Program, lures Indians to the city with the promise of a new life, a good job, with good pay. Many people wishing to improve their lot fall for this all too often disap­pointing myth. 
A friend of mine came to San Jose. He went to the B. l. A. of­fice and they sent him to a local barrel factory where he got a job making barrel staves for the fabu­lous sum of $1. 45 an hour. 
I met two Navajos who signed up for on-the-job training (agri­cultural techniques). They ended up living in a squalid shack on a farm outside Gilroy picking cab­bage for eight dollars a day. 
While on Alcatraz Island, I talked with an old Rosebud Sioux. They gave him a job as a janitor at a Catholic high school in Oakland. He became ill, could not vork, and had to go on relief because the job failed to provide unem­ployment compensation, social se­curity benefits, or disability in­surance. 
The only people who benefit from 

this program are the companies 
involved for being provided with a 
source of cheap labor. The Indian 
as usual, gets the short end­
exploitation, disillusionment, and 
heartache. 
When Indians do arrive · in an 
urban area, tribal differences are 
lowered and they band together for 
social and psychological comfort. 
Slowly, as many begin to adj ust, 
friendship groups and social clubs 
are organized. One of the unique 
social activities that has resulted 
is the pow-wow. 
A pow-wow is a white man's 
slang for transactions between the 
white race and the Indians. These 
transactions were usually one-sided 
in the fact that they were always 
to the white man's advantage. 
Historically, celebrations were held for the successful passing of a hard winter, an abundant . hunt of buffalo and other game, and victorious fighting over enemy tribes. Another reason for sing­ing and dancing was the joy of seeing old friends, relatives, and many times, for arranging mar­riages. 
A keen observer at an urban pow-wow is fortunate in that he is looking at a vessel that con­tains and perpetuates old traditions combined with many new ways. The net result is a hybrid social activity, totally urban and totally Indian . 
It has been a common myth, created and perpehlated by the white man, that Indians are , by nature, only capable of holding certain jobs such as ditchdiggers , beauticians, mechanics, cooks, out­house painters, and the like. They are totally incapable of functioning in a professional capacity. The 
B. I. A. is highly instrumental in maintaining and perpetuating this myth. Most of its secondarv edu­cational funding is limited to the
V 
two year or less trade-school type. 
The Indian's ability to adjust to the liberal environment of the urban area, the educational opportunities 
afforded there, have all been 
strumental in helping the Indi 
gain a new insight and awarene 
into his Indianess. This self 
awareness has manifested itself 
the development of the new Indi 
This new Indian is now becorni totally equipped to compete Wi the white man on his own ter Quite often, the new Indian's abili to aggressively capitalize and e ploit given opportunities, has label him a militant. You can attach him any term you wish, the n Indian is on his way to impr0 the lot for his Indian Brothe both on and off the reservatio The new Indian, in the proces will hopefully destroy many of myths that have deterred his pr gress for so long. 

'INDIAN VOICE', the a 11 I ndian month ly magazine, is publis hed by the Native American Pu bli­shing Company, a non profit orga nizati on, to present an 
authenti c view of the American Indian history, cult ure a nd heritage. It will endeavo r to express the h o pes, fears and aspirations of those who are the true Native America ns. 
Edi tor 
FERN WILLIAMS (Siou x) 
PH:246-1442 
As soc iate Editor 
RUDY CASAZZA (Seneca ) 
Associa te Editor 
SMOKEY SILENT FOX (S ioux 
Associate Editor 
ARCHIE BLACKSMITH ( Si oux 
~ec retary-Treasur·e r 
r-,1ARY ANNE NAVAI~EO (Kiowa) 
Illustrator 
ARTHUR MILLARD (Cuechan 
Circulation Mgr . 
CAROLE STUBBS (Siou x) 
txecutive Staff 
ANN HANSEN (Acorna-Pueb la) 
JERRY ROYE.AL (Jicarilla) 
GEORGETTE BOYER (Sioux ) 
Readers comments in the fo rm of letters o r articles a re solic it ed and wel come. Please mail your articles to Edito r, 
P.O. Box 2033 , Sa nta C lara , California 95051. 
SUbSU-, I P1'IOA. l10NA TION $5. 00 Yearly 

THI S MONTHS COVER 
This month,s cover is by Anne Hansen from the Acoma 
L wis hte 
tribe. She is a daug r
I 1 
pu ) 0 d tt
f Lucy M. Lewis, fame po_ er coma Pueblo, New Mexico. 
oI . h 
nne is a fine potter m er o_wn · . ·ht She is the mother of five
r1" • •hildren. 
\Vh n the San Jose Core Te8m ame into existence, Anne com­mitted herself to serve Indian le in some way. Anne be­
pe P . t .
li , s 'that the happ1es person 1s th one who is involved with oth­r , who is in love with lifr . .:.., ur lo\'e by its very nature, can never b held down or locked in. It pu h to get things done, to build up to improve. It compels us to oo' ut to people, especially those ~-ho are helpless or without hope." "\\'hile in Washington, I met so many people I knew from Acoma and those who met or heard of my mother or thru school. It was 
•T t to communicate in my ownI r san language with Pueblos em­ployed there, to see the Indians at \\Ork." 
. nne donated pottery (Olla with Pre-historic Mimbres Antelope de­ign) to D-Q University museum on January 17, 1971, which was tc;c pted by Dave Reisling, Pres. 
h also personally presented a ,.,ift (a ceremonial bowl with Pre­hi toric Mimbres designs of five diflerent Thunderbirds with fine lin and dots representing rain and raintips) to Ethel Kennedy at IIi I· ry Hill on February 3, 1971. 
-LETTERS­
L.. DIA VOICE EDITOR 
• m so pleased to find we are finally dorn something constructive and intel­1 ctual, in our usual dignified manner! I _use the possessive pronoun with pnde-I am only one quarter Indian 
but it counts. ' HO\~ about fostering or promoting an · mencan Indian Week in our public
·ch001 ?
s · We are having a Black His-tor \\eek, 2-15 -2-19 but we Indians n ver g t ' 
e any recognition. Let's also ~~ ~any pam~hlets, etc . , to the 
0
·J.chin~· requesting they be used in t>· We need Indian stories in
1 
t sets for reading classes and his-muc:h ~td let',~ keep them clean-so
th
'h' e Black Literature" and
tcano 
L'1terature" are so vulgar that
vuldn' t thi . .
la . . nk of using them in the1oom I'd l'k t
,hich \\oul· . 1 ·e o see material uid . d Lmprove the students' minds 
,1t,1dem· k 
ducation ic 'nowledge (purposes of ) as well as informing them 

Ann Lewis presenting Thunder­bird design ~ottery to Ethyl Kennedy on February 3rd during the ~an Jose Core Teams visit to Li dory Eil 1. 
of history, folklore, and current hap­penings. Things we could be proud to use! How about a monthly newspaper to the school, containing one story of Indian folklore, a religious chant, some illustrations, articles about what is going on in the Indian world today, compositions, letters, poetry, drawings by Indian children from all over the country, and names of "pen pal" Indian children with whom San Jose youngsters could correspond? 
A class set of such papers to each school, with separate copies for each teacher, would be great. Also, let's have announcements of Indian speakers and programs available to the school! How about some Indian music and dance programs? Perhaps a list of Indian children in the county as our first pen pals? 
Am enclosing a check of $10. 00­$5. 00 for the magazine, and $5. 00 to­ward the beginning of some constructive educational activities. 
Here's to better communication! 
Mrs. Katherine Westphal San Jose, Calif. 
INDIAN VOICE EDITOR 
Here's a copy of our preliminary announcement of the April 4 American Indian Festival at Foothill that we dis­cussed on the phone a couple of nights ago. It will be great if you can in­clude it in your calendar in next month's issue of "Indian Voice". If you think a separate little article in the body of the magazine might be appropriate, that would be even greater! 
Chances are you will also hear about this event directly from Adam Nordwall, but this will insure your having the critical information by the deadline for the March issue (April will be too late, I'm afraid). 
It would be most helpful if we could track down the negatives or originals of those Indian fashion photos-they would be perfect for submission to the local newspapers with press releases on the event, since the fashion show 
will  be  a  major and unique  part of the  
program.  
By  the  way,  this  seems  as  good  a  

time as any for our family to sub­
scribe to your new magazine, so our 
check for $5. 00 is enclosed. 
Many thanks for your help-and feel 
free to give me a call if you have 
any questions. 
Elsa Solt 
Los Altos Hills, Calif. 
INDIAN VOICE EDITOR 
It was very pleasant meeting you and 
seeing your impressive magazine, IN­
DIAN VOICE. 
The publication already is making a 
valuable contribution to the much needed 
expansion of communications between 
the Indian people, and between the In­
dian people and the broad American 
public. I wish you every success with 
this exciting, new magazine. 
I am glad that you would like to run my article on the discrimination prob­lems which the South American and Central American Indian people have struggled against for decades just as the American Indians have. The ar­ticle also details the crisis in trans­portation in Peru and in Brazil and in Colombia which have plagued the Indian peoples of those countries just as the poor roads in the United States on In­dian Reservations have severely handi­capped communications in so many cases in Indian life in America. This is one reason why I hope my article will point up the crisis which so many American Indian people face in this country by way of showing how badly Indians in South America have fared because of poor roads. 
I am thinking of the deplorable situ­ation at Bluff, Utah, which is on the edge of the Navajo Reservation, which is one of m,any such cases. Navajo people have to walk across a swaying footbridge across the San Juan River because no one cared enough to put in a decent bridge and good road to the bridge for the Navajo people. Pregnant women have to cross that dangerous bridge and walk into town three miles away for medical attention. Those that don't use that broken down bridge have to drive 50 miles to reach the same point because of no bridge. A bridge, and a good road would start develop­ment for the Navajo people, provide opportunities for Indians to go into business themselves, and for them to get to jobs much easier than the con­dition they now face. Over 25,000 Na­vajo people would be able to use a bridge there. 
Best of luck. 
Clayton Willis Washington, D. C. 
EDITOR Thank you for sending me a copy ot 
"Indian more  s Voice". ubscriptiThank  You will n0w ons. you.  have  t\\'o  
Frank 1/ 4 C Barr hippewa  
3  

D-Q UNIVERSITY INTERIM BOARD SELECTED 
DAVIS, CAL.: At a mass meet­ing here on February 21st, a D-Q Interim board was selected con­sisting of 16 Chicanos and 16 Native Americans. The meeting was held at the 647-acre site of the new university (the first sur­plus federal land ever awarded to Indians or Mexican-Americans). An executive board will be formed at a later meeting of the Interim board. 
Plans for Deqanawida-Quetzacoatl University to open with a spring program of ten evening and week­end classes, using temporary faci­lities if land title formalities are not completed, were made. A 50 member volunteer staff includes faculty from the University of Cal­ifornia's Davis and Berkely cam­puses and several state colleges and individuals with previous col­lege teaching experience. 
Many outside of the academic community are included on the new D-Q staff. Dr. Jack Forbes, one of the originators of the new uni­versity, gave Carl Gorman as an example. Carl Gorman (Kinya­anibeyeh), often called the nation's most prominent Navajo artist, is a lecturer in Native American Stu­dies at UC-Davis, and will teach at the new DQU. 
Reservation Tribal Conference Held 
BILLINGS, MONT. (IPA): Initial steps to form a National Tribal Chairman's Council were agreed upon at the Reservation Tribal Chairmen's Conference held here on February 18-19. 
A resolution was passed by the conference appointing a committee to draft "appropriate documents to create a national organi:z.ation of elected reservation leaders." The resolution was a compromise be­tween delegates who wanted to im­mediately form the organization and those who felt that another national organi:z.ation would further weaken the financially-troubled NCAI. 
Although no direct attacks were 
NATIVE AMERICANS Native American members from left to right front Abienetti, Jack Forbes, 
ON D-Q UNIVERSITY INTERIM BOARD 
of the D-Q University Interim Board sh are: Mahlin Marshall, Dave Risling, Ab and Alex Corpus. From left to right re 
are: Dick Luna, Willard Wasson, Tom Campbell, Vivian Hail st Alice Williams, Jennie Joe, Grace Thorpe, Otis Morgan and Al fr Hicks. Sarah Hutchins and Frank Clark are not pictured. 
made against the NCAI, many dele­gates argued that, without sub­stantial change, the National Con­gress did not fully serve the needs of reservation Indian people. Many of these delegates assured the as­sembly that a separate organization of tribal chairmen would serve to compliment the NCAI, however. 
Recurring  throughout  the  con­ 
ference  was  the  theme  of  non­ 
reservation  demands  on  federal  

finances designed for reservation programs. Former Commissioner Robert Bennett, in criticizing the increased urban influence in the BI.A said, "It appears that the fed­eral government is dealing more with individual Indians and self­styled Indian leaders who, because of the availability of the mass media in urban centers, are re­ceiving more than their share of attention at the expense of the tribes where lies the government's first responsibility." 
The conference general assembly also voted to fully support a Con­ference on Indian Self Determi­nation, tentatively scheduled to be held in Kansas City, March 8-12, 1971. 
Violence Erupts Ov 
Indian Fishing Righ 
Vigilantes are shooting at W ington State Native Americans a on the Puyallup River. This s from the arrests of Native Am cans, who are referred to by vigilantes as "Washington N igge last fall. 
During the dawn hours of J ary 19, 1971, Hank Adams shot by assailants who spok hostile language and wore clo of sportsmen or loggers. The hostile white men accosted Adams while he was sitting car waiting for a friend , Hunt, who was on the river ting steelhead. The vigil opened his car door and fir twenty-two rifle into the abdo of Adams. 
A court decision permitted tive Americans to net steel on the Puyallup River weeks earlier. 
Thoughts at Random
URBANJUNGLE INSTITUTION 
DO INDIANS GET HEADACHES? 
SMOKEY SILENT FOX
CHALKSUP ANOTHER VICTIM 
(SIOUX) 
Walter 
Columbus Day, October 12th, 
on a Monday last year. In­~~: from many tribes gathered . iansan Francisco to protest the rn 1 bration of Columbus's landing ~:c:use they believed the ide~ th~t Columbus "disco".'ered" A_merica 1s 
\ hite racist view of history and : distinct distortion of their own heritage. Around the San Francisco Bay rea, some of the civic ser­
ices were curtailed or stopped in honor of the day, including those at the Clinic of the San Mateo General Hospital. 
Isaac Walkingbear, an Indian whose tribe is in South Dakota, needed medical attention on Co­lumbus Day and went to the emer­gency room of the San Mateo Hos­pital to get help. When I first 
w him there, it was clear he 
sick. His eyes were clouded 
not functioning normally. He 

aid he had taken a drug and his breath smelled of alcohol (this in it elf could be cause for concern because certain drugs taken with alcohol can be fatal). Walkingbear was in bad shape: sometimes he topped speaking mid-sentence, he paused, and made strange gestures. 
Like many other alcoholics, Walk­ingbear had tried to quit drinking. He wanted to change. He very much hoped to work in the Indian community and other communities to help better conditions there. . s h~ said, "I want to up my integrity so I can help my people." He had been to Alcoholics Anony­mous meetings in an effort to im­prove himself. 
Walkingbear waited over two hours at the hospital, but no doctor ever hi
u saw m. Finally, he gave p and 1 drove him home. I was ~ed to public hospitals running s way. There is one in New
0 rleans L • • 
, omsiana, insultingly ~ :ed Charity Hospital that I'd at1 t:im~ experience with. Once wmdow screens were taken 
way d · 
quito urmg the height of the mos-were kseason 8:nd the patients all all d ept up nights swatting liter­
Bougers 
stopping routine tests for prostate 
cancer and diabetes that uncovered 
many cases of disease each year. 
It is worth mentioning that the 
young intern who told me that last 
story was a racist conservative 
but one who did have enough con­
cern for poor people and people 
of color to have some ethical 
standard to meet when treating 
patients. Charity Hospital, how­
ever, did not. 
I can remember waiting in an 
emergency room of a public hos­
pital over an hour before any at­
tention was given to the person 
with me. She had just had a 
heart attack and was continuing to 
have chest pain. Walkingbear's 
case was a little different from 
this case because his did not seem 
to be urgent. But two days later 
he was dead. Maybe he would 
have died even if they hadn't ig­
nored him, maybe not. But how 
many people who do not get the 
medical treatment they need suffer 
and die needlessly? Society is not 
willing to give adequate medical 
service. Nor is it willing to set 
up houses where people who need 
companionship and long-term medi­
cal superv1s1on, as Walkingbear 
did, might get what they really 
need. 
Isaac Walkingbear had the ability 
to really help change the lives of 
the Third World people he could 
lead. Isaac Walkingbear is dead. 

"Do Indians get headaches?" mean, do you people really get headaches? You know, like the other people do?" 
"You gotta-be-kidding." That was the first and only incredulous com­ment I could come up with at the precise moment. . 
"What on earth do you mean; do Indians get headaches? And like other people do? Explain yourself. " 
"Well, you know," the instructor of English in high school replied to my terse question, "What is an Indian? Why should Indians get headaches? Indians don't have prob­lems like Whites do. For example, what is there to give them head­aches?" 
"Where were you born?" I asked this deep-thinking high school in­structor. 
"Oh, I was born and raised in Los Angeles and lived there until five years ago. Why?" 
"Ever been to an Indian reser­vation?" was my next question. 
"Oh Heavens, no," he expostu­lated. "I can't stand the country. Can't stand to be out of the city. I need people around me to keep me happy and interested." The Fox admits to being more than a little pushed at that mo­ment. It was one of those mo­ments that do things to a man's personality. 
"How about you breaking out of your dirty ditch that you live in, and come with me. It's time you learn about humans!" 
This actually happened five years ago. The high school instructor is now teaching in one of our col­leges. He is more of a man now than he had formerly hoped to be, and by his own admission: "Indians are Indians and I wish I were. That vacation I spent on an Indian Reservation in Oregon was an eye opener." 
The enlightened professor stated further, "I have spent the past several summers living with the Red men and I know the depths of beauty available to everyone who wishes to look for such things as wild flowers, trees, birds, ani­
bod. ozens of mosquitoes off their "He says he lies a lot, but he mals, nights under the stars, and ies· Anoth t· can't help it --he was taught by most of all, my dear wife, an
cided t er ime, Charity de­
experts.!"
o save some money by Indian.'' 
Indian Leadership 
The California Rural Indian Health Board, Inc., founded on a special demonstration project grant from the U. S. government in 1967, is on the verge of operational reality. It will be the first such board in the nation to run a state­wide Indian health program-and it will be administered and staffed soley by Indians! 
The entire board, composed of two elected representatives from each of 15 areas throughout the state, met in San Jose in the last part of February for a four-day leadership train­ing seminar. Above from left to right are: Mrs. Lena McCovey, Phoenix area representative, Mrs. Marion Chacon, secretary for the statewide board, Dr. Tom White, M. D. and Dennis Magee, vice chairman of the three year old Indian health program. 
Federal School Aid For Indians Proposed 
WASHINGTON: A bill boost­ing federal aid to school dis­tricts with Indian students has been co-authored by Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif. 
The principal author of the measure, titled the Indian Education Act of 1971, is Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass. 
It would provide $165 mil­lion over a "five-year period for pilot projects to improve Indian educational opportunity, and would expand special adult education programs. 
Any district with 10 or more Indian students would qualify for aid under the proposed act. 
Vocu Named New Director Of NCAI 
Leo W. Vocu, editor of the Oglala War Cry at Pine Ridge, South Dakota, and member of the Oglala Sioux tribe, was named executive director of the National Congress of Am­erican Indians on January 20, 1971. Franklin Ducheneau, Jr. , a Cheyenne River Sioux, -resigned as executive director to NCAI, and will stay Wi the Bureau of Indian Affair congressional liaison depa ment in Washington, D. C. 
The NCAI, whose main of fice is situated in Washingto 
D. C. , is made up of Indi tribes all over the U.S. 
New Haskell Al umn Chapter In Son Jose 
The Haskell Indian Alumni A 
sociation wishes to announce formation. All former Haskell s dents and their families are we come to join and participate the club's activities. 
The meeting is scheduled Sunday, March 14, 1971, at 1: 
p. m. at the San Jose Indian Cen at 90 South Second Street, Jose. For more information, call of the following: 
.Beaman Wisdom, President 225-0269 or Norman Clark, Vice-Presiden 248-4167 
SFIC Offers Serig rop And Painting Closse 
SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.: Fr painting classes are being offer at the San Francisco Indian Cen by Mr. Jim St. Martin and Chaddleson. Classes are held ea Monday and Friday night at 7: Both Mr. St. Martin and Chaddleson are presently attendi the San Francisco Art Institute. 
On Tuesday and Thursday ev nings at 7:00, Verna Clinton (P ute), a senior at San Francis City College, is offering instructi in Serigraphs (working with pho graphs). 
Wayne Babby Is New Ar Office Director" Aberdeen 
ABERDEEN, S. D. -Wyman Babby (Sioux) has been appoin director of the Aberdeen Area Offi Bureau of Indian Affairs. 
Babby began his career with government in 1961 as administ tive assistant with the Indi Health Service at Nespelem, Wa ington. 

driftwood or whalebone and insu­craftsmen among the Eskimos and lated with blocks of sod. Modern their carvings in wood, jade, and homes along the Yukon and Kusk­
There are skilled artists and
THE 
ivory have found enthusiastic col­okwim deltas are wood frame or lectors around the world . log dwellings, sometimes made of driftwood or other salvage.
Best known and most numerous of the native Alaskans are the 
AN ESKIMO's POEM ON
ESKIMOS 
Eskimos, usually associated with The familiar and functional h~od~d a world of igloos, fur parkas, and DICK AND JANE* J·a and mukluks are still m sled dogs. The culture of the John Angaiak ur par" modern Alaskan Eskimo does not 
e, idence in Alaska. Inf mlantyh_ are~s O c o 1ng 1s completely fit this popular concept.
hi ty e Long, long ago, I use to
bow ver, t s p
r placed by items selected from a A hunting people, the Eskimos read DICK AND JANE . . order catalogue, and the art live today in more than 100 widely
1 Now I keep wonder'in 'bout
~t\orking skins is known only to separated villages along the Bering them kids.
th older women. Sea and the Arctic Ocean coasts; I am wonder'in if ye old now.
pendent upon the sea and the the lower river deltas of the Yukon, tundra for food and clothing, the Kuskokwim and smaller rivers in Guess my brothers'11 keep on E kimos have highly dev_eloped western Alaska; and the Diomede, a'readin'em. t hniques for hunting ~nd fis~ng, King, St. Lawrence, and Nunivak .md these skills are bemg rapidly Islands. Much of Eskimoland is 
I went to school at home an' Iauom nted by modern technology-windy and treeless, with temper-
luv'em kids.
1 fishhooks, semiautomatic ri-atures well below zero in winter fl , nylon fish nets and outboard and rarely higher than 50 degrees But that wuz before modern motors . They also build excellent in the brief summer months. The times. 
l· nk boats, canvas canoes , and finger of 20th Century progress I use to read, aloud, "See, see,
1
th skin-covered kayak and umiak, has beckoned many Eskimos to see. ,,hich they ply on rivers and the jobs in Alaska's cities and larger 
See Sally, Oh! oh! oh! Funny,
op sea in search of small fur-communities, while others have
11 funny Dick;"
b :.iring animals, fish, whale, wal-gone outside the State for employ­ru , and seal. ment and training. 
Village life centers around the The pattern of Eskimo life was school, and native store. carefully matched to the turn of Look ye, why don't my brothers that were strongly influ-the seasons and the migration of read somethin' new, 
by the period of Russian game and fish-periods of furious Cause times are a changin. there may be one or activity out of doors, followed by 
My brothers should be readin'
public steam baths, similar weeks of relative inactivity when somethin' ne\v. 
sauna, where villagers bad weather prevented work. 
Cause they arc way behind.
Eskimo Battalions of the Alaska Eskimos never built snow 
Guard play an important igloos, although they sometimes p rl in the activities of young constructed snow windbreaks when m n. Where there are armory caught outside in storms. The buildings , they may also serve as old-fashioned igloo (the Eskimo 

from •THE TUNDRA TIMES
community centers. word for house) was framed in 
......~~~ .....~ ..,. .."""!,,.r,'!'!"'""'·•·····""'
~--r.M:-.-,,,-1---..,~ .·,'!!¦. ?~ ,,c;:,:•,·•~ 
·......_ 
200 .. ,);,t... l'tj!t,+ E S K M 0 G A M E S 
Arctic / · ~ Despite the harsh environment, the Eskimo has a greater ability to 1augh,
7 
() (North Slope) 
dance, and play games than most people.
. ~\ r~-/ ~i 
... ~ l-\lit•er/i ~ 
. ~ ,.. ~ 
,,, ALASKA _5~!;1~;;~s 

·s:~:~-~-~ 
(
ikusimmiaq -Walk on elbows Seal racing on hands with holding hands over ears. body trailing. 
Be rina ""'--­
~. i Mc~~LE~ -." 
a 
~,\ 
<~ '--._ An<ho:•~~~ i5J;~:.. 

Ocean 
pillirtartuq -Move from squat position to knees tunummi j uk -Back to back,
and back again in quick push opponent over line movements. using hands and feet. 

7 



DESTRUCTION OF IROQUOIS SETTLEMENTS MASSACRE OF AS MANY OF EVERY AGE AND SEX AS POSSIBLE" PLANNED AND COMMANDED BY GENERAL GEORGE WASHINGTON. 
I
t is ironic that the American Revolution, which 
gave birth to the evolution of American po­litical freedom, should purposely put an end to the original Confederacy of political unity on this continent. It was General George Washington, commander-in-chief of the Continental Army, who personally planned the destruction of the Iroquois Confederacy. 
The Iroquois Confederacy was no mere political alliance; north of Mexico, it w·as the most im­portant confederation of Nations of this continent, existing since before European exploitation, on through and after the revolt of the British colo­nies. Limiting to its time and place, no achieve­ment of mankind exceeds the Iroquois Confederacy in either wisdom or intelligence. The League of the Iroquois Nations was more than a successful alliance for keeping peace among the most power­ful of North American Indian Tribes. The Con­federacy sought universal and perpetual peace from all the tribes of the continent. Its spiritual genius was Deganawida, son of the virgin called Dj igonsasee. And like the Son of that virgin of Christianity, he too sought peace among mankind. 
INDIAN 
The year 1775 begins the final drama in the Iroquois Confederacy is to play a signific 
role in Indian chronicles and United States tory. In general, the Iroquois were loyal to Crown. At best, the colonial rebels could hope to neutralize the Confederacy. The To did their best to induce the Iroquois to activ support the Crown. The lands of the Iroqu separated the colonies from British Canada , it was on their lands that severe fighting take place. The intrigue and counter-intrigue led by three individuals loyal to the Crown, well respected by the tribes of the Confeder 
Samuel Kirkland, a missionary to the Onei who induced that nation and the Tuscarora Na to remain neutral; Guy Johnson, nephew of liam Johnson, sought Mohawk support for British. He was able to persuade most of Mohawks to accompany him to Canada, w that tribe was induced to fight under the command of Guy Johnson and Joseph Brant Mohawk chief. John Johnson, son of Will Johnson, remained in the valley to lead supporters when this might prove necessary. 
. tb tbe proclamation _of the Decla­
\ 1 . f Independence m 1776, colo­
ration bo ls broke political ties with 
ial re e 1 f
n ther country. As a resu t o tbe mo flict between the British and tbe conlonial rebels, the policy of tb .c\y among the tribes of the unaru~is confederacy broke down. 
Jroquo1 h M h k
Tb year was 1777. T de. _do da~ s d tbe Onondagas were 1v1 e m­an ally supporters going to both
t rn , .
b British and the colonists. The t :yuga and Seneca Natio~s supported the tories; and the Oneida. and the Tu carora ations although m theory neutral, did in fact, support and ·ve aid to the colonial rebels. The 
1 
\\ ar tbat united the colonies had in­deed split the Confederation, and ain regardless of what side he c bam~ioned, the Indian would be the 
lo er. 
\ bat Washington planned, and he did tbe planning himself, was a full cale campaign against the Iroquois, . nd in particular, against the Sene­ca , Cayugas, and Onondagas. He •ave the orders to General John ulli an of New Hampshire. Washing-ton's command was explicit. He wanted the total destruction of every ettlement and the capture of as many prisoners of every age and 
x as possible". Moreover, he w nted the country of the Iroquois not only "overrun but destroyed". 
To General John Sullivan was given th explicit orders by the Continental ommander-in-chief, General George W hington. Sullivan, a native of 
· \\ Hampshire, was a quick-tempered Iri hman, who had proved to be a driving, daring general. The general had some 4,000 men to carry out the planned massacre. His men, mo t of whom were from New York 
\ Jersey, New Hampshire, Massa~ chu etts , Pennsylvania, and Maryland, \\ re eterans of the Continental Line. To this force was added a detachment of the celebrated Indian Fi hters , Morgan's ,Riflemen. The li~o_ops were well supplied with mu­nitwns and the very latest of mili­t ry weapons, including pontoon boats for portages• In addition the com­ma~d had eleven of the ~ery latest 
rtillery pieces, two, three, and six .ounders, and two 5-1/2-· .h h ­
1tz.ers. me ow 
er~he mas~acre, as planned by Gen­plan t v ashmgton, was a deliberate 
0 
1 t" massacre the Iroquois popu­tilaiin\ :~d devastate its lands. The uii· three-pronged· 1 General
ivan was t 1 . .
h nn ° ay up the Susque­ene~alto J the New York border; 2. ceed th ames Clinton was to pro­down t;o~gh the Mohawk Valley,_, on quehanna ~~ Otsego and the Sus­Brodheact' d w ile 3 • Colonel Daniel trom Pitt bevaStated up the Allegheny 
s urgh rc ,
-·, ont d on page 17) 
\H(lf l 971 

The_faces on the new military script money being issued · in South Vietnam depict an Indian Chief, buffalos, and an Amer­ican eagle. 
Face Of Indian On New Peace Money 
The faces on the new military script money being issued in South Vietnam seem to indicate a signi­ficant shift to peace. Peace, mind you, is a theme long desired. There is a mystical ring about the word. What is more, the faces on the money for peace in that far off country are American Indian faces. Some Buffaloes and a few clean-faced white girls are also to be found. 
Take a look at the one with the dignified and proud face of an In­dian chief in full war bonnet. There is another one, one that has 
the  earmarkings  of  Sitting  Bull,  
the  Sioux  Medicine  Man  who  is  
best known  for  the  wipe  out  of  

General "Yellow Hair" Custer. 
For lo these many years now, the military script money in South Vietnam has had tanks, Green Beret troops and American eagles in warlike stance. Now the mood of peace is found on the script money, an American eagle in a protective stance, Sitting Bull's face, an Indian Chief, Buffaloes, and a pretty American-type girl. 
How-about-that, fellow Ameri­cans? 
Clearwater Back In Service 
SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.: Thanks to a $2, 000 donation, the Alcatraz Indians' boat, The Clearwater, is in service again after undergoing major · repairs. 
With The Clearwater back in service, fresh water for the Island occupants is once more obtainable. However, other things are in short supply. Badly needed are lanterns , candles, fuel , staple food items, and canned meat. 
The address is: Alcatraz Indians, Pier 40, The Embarcadero, San Francisco, California 94103. 
Indian Scholarship 
Program Initiated 
ALBUQUERQUE, N. M.: A scho­larship program has been initiated to assist Indian students working toward Masters or Doctorate de­grees. Funded by the Donner Foundation, the American Indian Graduate Scholarship Program is headquartered at the University of New Mexico Law School in Albu­querque. 
To receive a scholarship grant from the AIGSP, a student must be one-fourth or more Indian blood. The amounts of grants are de­termined according to individual need and are made for one col­lege year. The deadline date for application is April 1. 
Persons wishing further infor­mation on the program should con­tact the AIGSP, University of New Mexico School of Law, Albuquerque, New Mexi_c....;.o....;..______ 


INDIAN ACHIEVEMENT AWARD WINNER 
Wilma L. Victor (Choctaw), educational adminis­trator, first of her tribe to receive the Award. 
Choctaw Educator Award Winner 
WASHINGTON, D. C. -Wilma L. Victor (Choctaw) a top-ranking educator, has been chosen to re­ceive the 1970 Indian Achievement Award, it is announced by Con­gressman Ben Reifel (Sioux) the National Chairman. Congressman Reifel is a previous Award winner. 
A native of Idabel, Oklahoma, Miss Victor-in 1967-was selected as one of six women in government to receive the coveted Federal W o­man's Award. She was chosen for her "exceptional creative and ex­ecutive ability in the administration of a unique and complex school program for disadvantaged Indian youth." 
Miss Victor was the third Interi­or Department careerist to receive this A ward. She is the first Choctaw to receive the Indian Achievement Award and the ninth woman. 
Since 1964, Miss Victor has been superintendent of Intermountain Indian School which has a student body of 2,100 Navajo youngsters. Her service with the Bureau of In­dian Affairs began on the Navajo reservation at the Shiprock school. In 1941, she enlisted in the Wo­men's Army Corps and advanced to the rank of First Lieutenant. 
When Intermountain opened in 1950, Miss Victor was academic pro­gram supervisor and developed a special program for Navajo students, 
Indian Law Center 
ALBUQUERQUE, N. M.-In the past year, five Indians graduated from law schools across the country. There are now at least 15 Indian lawyers in practice and that number will have doubled by next June. 
Much of this is due to the Indian Law Center, sponsored by the Uni­versity of New Mexico, which not only assists young Indians get their law degrees, but is doing research in Indian jurisprudence that has never been done before. 
Directing the Indian Law Center program is RobertL. Bennett (Onei­da) who is initiating the first stages of a critical research and training program that will affect virtually every Indian tribe in the country. 
The project is being financed through three contracts. The Nava­jo Tribe, for one, has retained the center to train prosecutors for the tribal judicial svstem. Arrow, Inc., 
has put up money for research and; publication of a criminal-procedur manual, and the National American Indian Court Judges Association ia underwriting a program for training tribal judges. 
First Indian-Owned And Operated Job Corps Center 
RONAN, MoNT.-The Confederate Salish and Kootenai Tribes of th Flathead Reservation have signed two-year agreement with the Labo Department's Manpower Admin' tration to operate a Job Corps train ing center on their reservation. 
It is the first time in the histo of the Job Corps program that training center will be managed and operated solely for Indians by In.. dians. 
Wayne Hamel (Flathead), Center Director, is a former case worker with the Montana Welfare Depart ment. He has a degree in sociology 
Medicine Man Ministers To Youth 
VERMILLION, S.D. -Beneath the shade of a large tree on the campus of the University of South Dakota at Vermillion, Frank Fools Crow ministers to the youth of his people. The 77-year old Indian medi­cine man came from the Pine Ridge Re­servation to do his part in bridging the generation gap. His grandson, Everette• 
Lone Hill, translated his words from L ota into English for four Indian girls YI are attending USD under the "Upw Bound" program. Seated, from left, a Leola Lee Hall of Pine Ridge, Bertha · Enem! of Pine Ridge, Fools Crow, Lo 
Hill, Sandra Two Lance of BatesLand a Ingrid Stands of O 1al ala 

J 
i-Pak was a little Indian boy who lived with his No-Nee (mother) and warrior father in an Indian apartment house. This is a story of Ji-Pak as has been told by the tribal story tellers since long long before the white skin p ople came from across the Great Shining Water . It was told to the Fox by a very lovely Chippewa lady more than forty years ago. 
On cold winter nights, little Ji-Pak loved to it in his parents' lodge apartment and listen to 
les of the Spirit People. Ji-Pak enjoyed the warm and friendly living in the long-log apart­ment house which the entire tribe occupied. The noi es and smells were wonderful and the shelter from the cold winter wind and snows made winter living enjoyable. Ji-Pak's No-Nee was the official ller of the tribe's history records and tales
J" , , .
1-Pak's No-Nee was also guardian and instructor ~r. the youngsters who had not reached the age0 instruction-for-warrior or instruction-for-wo­manhood. In the long winter evenings Ji-Pak's 
mother th . ' 
d ga erect the children to her lodge area ~ told the wonderful tales of the Spirit Peo­
1:·~ost of all, Ji-Pak enjoyed the Spirit Peo­her . es. J:Ie and the other children would ga­Pellbm a circle around his mother and listen 0 e~td to t~e never ending tales that she told ribe · Oftentimes, many adult members of the 
Would ·t · 
nd h si m to learn the story's meaning eopl:_ar of the troublesome antics of the Spirit 
On one such night, An-Ko-Pi called for the children to gather around her. Being very wise and desiring to relate a lesson to the adults as well as the children, An-Ko-Pi called for as many adults as desired to listen. Soon a full circle of children backed by an equally full circle of adults were eagerly awaiting the start of the tale. 
"No-Nee," little Ji-Pak anxiously questioned his beloved parent, "is it not time for the Evil Spirit Tale ? The Wo-Wee wails in the dark woods? Is it not their cry for the tale? They listen to the Spirit People Tales as do we." 
"Yes, my little warrior son," An-Ko-Pi agreed. "Gather closely to me and I shall tell of the Moon's never ending struggle with the Spirit Peo­ple." 
"As you all well know, it has long been be­lieved that the Evil Spirit People do their bad deeds during the darkest time of the moon. The full moon is bad for the Evil Spir it People . They cannot slip around unnoticed and do their evil deeds if the moon is full and bright. It is too easy for the animals and our people to see them. The full moon drives the Evil Spirit people into a frenzy. They cannot pull the Wo-Wee's (wolf) tail. They cannot dig up our freshly planted corn. They are afraid to chance pulling Do-Mna's (owl) feathers. 
(CONTINUED ON PAGE FIFTEEN) 

I
n 1832 a few members of the Seminole tribe 
~ of Florida signed an agreement with U.S. Government officials which was to become hated among the Seminoles as the Treaty of Payne's Landing. 
Under it, within 3 years the entire tribe would surrender all its Florida lands, move to Indian territory (Oklahoma), and there join members of the Creek tribe. These harsh terms became even more hateful with a later declaration that no Negro would be allowed to accompany the tribe west. For more than 20 years the Seminoles had given refuge to the escaped slaves of both Indian and white owners, had in turn enslaved them and intermarried with them. The no-Negro decree would mean the breaking up of many Seminole families. 
Most members of the tribe indignantly repudi­ated the treaty. As time for removal neared, their resistance to it· intensified under the leader­
12 INDIAN V 

Osceola. This portrait by George Catlin was made in 1838, just before the handsome young leader of Seminole resistance died while a prisoner at Fort Moultrie, S.C. Photo: Smithsonian Institution. 
ship of Osceola, a bandsome young Indian Creek and possibly some European ancestry. 
Osceola was less than 30 at the time, and 
n a chief either by election or inheritance, but w acknowledged as the Seminoles' strong man. had fully demonstrated his courage and intel gence as a warrior during fights against Gene Jackson and his men in the First Seminole (1819). Osceola expressed open contempt for 1832 treaty and repeatedly refused to sign despite pressure from Gen. Wiley Thompson, chief sponsor. 
Continuing his effort to get unanimous Se nole approval, General Thompson called toget a group of tribal leaders in 1835. Most of chiefs who opposed the treaty stood by silen refusing to take the pen offered them, but Osce furiously plunged his hunting knife into the pa declaring that he would never agree to the trea terms, and would do all he could to encour 
·stance Thompson had Osceola ar­
· nole res1 . . . d
mi t into irons, and 1mprisone . 
sted
r ~ , ?t Osceola quickly got himself released The widY_ g that he had changed his mind about
• ten in
l.>y pi and would sign it. As soon as he was tb trehaty began to organize his resistance cam­
r e, e i ~: was too experienced to attempt open 
::; t,; o1a . ·1·t
inst the whites' super10r m1 1 ary power. ttl::gte formed small parties of Indian war­Jn:::,t .' structed them to cause Government forces 
ri rs in · h
' h irritation as they could, kill w en pos­
. t1
ucand then vanish into the wilderness. Wo­
ib ' hi.ldren and the old and sick of the tr ibe 111 11 , c ' f h F 1 · d 
. hidden in the depths o t e or1 a swamps. b1 1 admg Seminole signer of the treaty, Charlie
1 
mathla was killed. su~cessful was Osceola's guerrilla warfare th· t .s. troops were sent into the field. On h ·i tmas Eve, 1835, more than 100 soldiers c~ 1 Maj or Dade set out from the military post u~i ort King, confident of capturing the Semi­nal s, 1e·ader. Three days later all but three ·r dead, having been ambushed and cut down 
b . eola and his men. The Indian leader went n to a enge the despised Payne's Landing Treaty 
b killing General Thompson and four other offi­rs. The Second Seminole War had begun. 
l• or the next 7 years a deadly game of cat and m u e was played in the Florida swamps and F,v rglades, as the U.S. Army tried to catch ala and his people. Immediately after the 1 cember massacres, 700 men, sent to bring in th most-wanted Indian, faced Osceola and his 1 riors in the battle of the Ouithlacoochee River. r heavy losses on both sides, the Indians forced to retreat, but Osceola, although 
ound d, escaped. 
fficer after officer, and more and more troops, cnt to lorida to bring in the elusive Osceola, r mained invisible. In May of 1837, Gen. 'I . . Jesup, latest in a long line of commanders nt to brmg the Seminole War to an end, called I ace council attended by Osceola and some , Indians. Jesup was so sure of success th t he had 24 transports standing by, ready to t k the Seminoles west. But Osceola got wind 0 th plot. The next morning, every Indian had 
nished . ' 'o Seminole proves false to his country, nor single instance ever occurred of a first­, t.e \ arrior having surrendered, " wrote the frus­1 d Jesup. Failing to capture Osceola in battle r through "peacemaking" tactics, Jesup finally ucc eded in seizing Osceola only by violating a
0 
. ?f truce under which the Indian leader was aitmg Jesup for a conference requested by the 
n ral o 
. · . sceola and a group of his followers 1 h imprisoned in Fort Moultrie, Fla. pidl Sw~mp Fox could not endure captivity, and . Y wasted away in prison. Within 3 months 
in anuar f ' 
Th Y O 1838, Osceola died. 
10r Second Seminole War was to go on for 4 lar Y;ars, as a succession of military leaders e that the Seminoles could never be de­
feated. The Indians came out of the swamp only in the fall of 1841, rather than forfeit the lives of a group of their tribesmen, who had been captured and held as hostages. After a peace tr eaty in 1842, most of the Seminoles moved to Indian territory. 
Several bands refused to move. Their descend­ants (some of whom, although unrelated to the great resistance leader, bear the name "Osceola") are still there, making up today's Seminoles of Florida. 

By Wa-Na-Ka (Br ight Sun) 
(Adopted Blood) 
My tomahawk is still. My arrow sleeps. My lance lies flat on the ground. The white ones cover our land. It is so. 
Our corn is theirs. Our plains they roam. Our hogan shapes they steal for homes. Our sun turns them redder with each day. It is good. 
Their waters turn red. Their skies turn black. Their earth turns white like 
bleached buffalo bones. 
Their bad medicine turns the wolf to quail. It is just. 
Clayton Willis Mr. Wt 11 is, a \;onsul tant for the Community Relations Service of the U.S. Department of Just­ice, has devoted many hours of his free time striving to better tfie lot of the Native 
Americans. His report of his recent trip to Peru· is printed below. 
Report From Peru 
PUCALLPA, PERU-This boom town of about 65, 000 residents which hugs an Amazon River tribu­tary called the Ucayali River, is at least one example of what can happen when a road connects it to the "outside world". It also spot­lights a clearcut discrimination problem through which this nation's Indians have suffered for decades. 
Once a sleepy jungle outpost of a bare 2,368 inhabitants in 1955, people from all over this country of 13. 5 million inhabitants and some from abroad began to flock here in the last five years as the first overland road was completed the 525 miles from the capital of Lima on the Pacific coast. Pu­callpa is about 350 airline miles northeast of Lima which is now giving the United States a tough time over its expropriation of the International Petroleum Company and the country's demands for control over waters for fishing out to 200 miles from the coast. 
Former President Fernando Be­launde Terry succeeded in getting a fairly good road built across the Andes Mountains from Lima to here. The all-weather highway sparked the construction and open­ing of a jet airport and modern airport terminal building, the con­struction of several plywood mills, the opening of a big paper factory starts in Lima, passes thr partly owned by the brother-in-law here and is to go on to the B of former Panamanian Foreign zilian border. Completion of Minister Fernando Eleta (Eleta left road would permit overland hi. office when now deposed President way travel from Rio de Jane Arnulfo Arias took over Panama through Brasilia and on to L" for 13 ,fays last September) . Since the Peruvian Highway 
Als~-Sinclair International has partment did a survey of the modernized its oil refinery here mammg 100-mile stretch of to handle a capacity of 2,-500 bar­road several years ago, EscaJ. rels per day. A 46-mile long, complained the government had d 4-inch pipeline brings crude oil to "nothing" to get under construe it from the Agua Caliente Field. the final link of the potentially The Pucallpa refinery in 1967 pro­trade route. cessed 1,512 barrels a day, ac­"Our government just doe cording to a Sinclair spokesman. have the money, " he lament.ed. 
Truck farming by Japanese im­Brazil has built most of its migrants has sprung up east of of the road from Brasilia to c here and is helping the economy. zeiro do Sul which is about Various small industries are pop­miles east, northeast of the Pe ping up. vian border. Some 26. 6 miles 
Examples of Europeans coming the road from Cruzeiro do Sul here to cash in on the business the Peruvian border have boom include the German couple built, but work has stopped at who opened the Berlin Hotel and point, reportedly because of Berlin Restaurant. of money and machinery. The 
"We used the name Berlin be­400 miles from Rio Branco, Br cause we thought international to Cruzeiro do Sul, Brazil, is travellers would know from it that all weather. It is little more we had a clean restaurant and a trail in some spots. Alth clean hotel", it was explained. finishing the road is the only 
Pucallpa itself has few hard to open up mineral, forest surface, black tar roads. Quite agricultural development of a few people live in real squalor. 175-mile area from this city Yet a modern housing development Cruzeiro do Sul, United S on the south eastern side of town A. I. D. and U. S. Public Roads attracts some of Pucallpa's weal­ficials told me they are not gi thier residents. priority to this link to the B 
Luis Escalante on May 1, 1968, zilian border. U.S. A. I. D. started up the city's only daily have been cut. What money newspaper, "La Razon". Editor mains goes into several proj and Publisher Escalante said the of Belaunde's Marginal Road tabloid's first month profit was a tern which he pushed to open whopping $25. (That's twenty-five the Andes Mountains areas 
U.S. dollars!) snow-clad peak of Mt. Huasc 
Escalante is concerned about the is 22,205 feet high). failure of the Peruvian Government At Pucallpa, a bridge must to complete the final 100 miles of built across the massive Uc a transcontinental highway which (Continued on page eighte 
The Spainish-Peruvians have deliberately and ruth lessl squeezed the Indians from the Peruvian economy except a sellers of beads, rugs, spears, jewelry and other such items Indians flock to the cities on market day to sell their wares 
indian imprints 
SMO KEY SILENT FOX 
( 5 I OU X) 
. te continuing impingement spi whites, the noble Dakotas th
by e rvived and admirably so. have 1srt their imprint and language They e over the entire state. 
111a
1::r the 
town of Watertown is . ke Kampeska (Dakota name). The La as formed when several young
lake \ ·t f th
Dakota braves in. pursm ' o e beautiful Mmnecotah s hand
t
mo t · t th
in marriage, threw s ones mo e According to the Dakota 
1 ke. M. tah
tecrend, the maiden, mneco , .sed to marry the one brave
ml 
pro h f h
·l threw his stone t e ar t est. " 10 .\fter several hours of their· f.mest fforts, it was evident to the young bra es that Minnecotah was not 
bout to say which brave had thrown the farthest distance . Rea­lizing this fact, her suitors rose in anger and carried the protest­in Minnecotah out into the lake and abandoned her on the newly formed stone island. 
The legend tells of a happy end­ino· however. A great white peli­an, seeing the lovely maiden in tress, carried food to Minneco­
t h until her lover, who had been , way on a long trip, came to her 
cue. 
Below Sylvan Lake in the Black Hills is a cut in the hills known Sunday Gulch. Walking through unday Gulch, one will see the 
'' uardian of the P ools" . 
Dal ota legend tells us that a tall and stately Indian wom an with bO\v d head came to guard the only \\ ater-filled pool during a truly 
Tre t drought in the Black Hills. 
The Dakota legend tells us that th \ oman was so faithful in her \ i il that she remained there until 
he expired. Rather than falling 
the mother earth, however, the rrreat Spirit thought to honor this \\ oman and so did tur n her to 
tone. That stone statue of the ' Guardian of the P ool" is there to this day . 
NOTICE 
If any Indian is an electrician jour­nel ym~ or can show four years of 
ectncal . 
een . experience or that he has , ice d~schar:;ed from any Armed Ser ­conta~/th an electrician's rate, please 
· Frank Barr 
Soutbern Pacific Diesel Shop 
Foot of Cedar St 
Oakland, Calif. · ' 
Or Call: 832-2121 ex. 44147 
~AR H 1971 
Indian Festiva I Set For April 4th 
An American Indian Festival will be held at the Foothill College Auditorium, Los Altos, on Sunday April 4, starting at 2: 00 p. m. 
Exhibits of Indian Arts and Crafts will be on display, Ceremonial cos­tumes of many different tribes will be shown and special tribal dances will be performed. 
The festival is being held for the benefit of the new Deganawidah­Quetzalcoatl University and the United Bay Area Council's building fund . Tickets are $1. 50 and may be obtained at the Los Altos Book Store or the Los Robles Gallery. 
For  additional  information,  phone  
Elsa  Solt, 948-2449,  or  Sue  Peck,  
941-2816.  

New Book To Read Rete 11s Tragic Story 
A new book well worth reading is, "Bury My Heart At Wounded Knee". This book, written by Dee Brown, is a 487 page treatise of the prairie Indians and of many associated tribes. It tells of the travesty perpetrated against the original American people dwelling on the great plains. 
Be prepared to wipe tears from the most stalwart of eyes that scan these factual and direct ac­countings and accusations. Read and weep, but do not let self-pity cloud your eyes. We, as a people, are emerging. We are being heard. Back and encourage your leaders and workers. They need and ap­preciate your help. 
FULL MOON -DARK MOON 
(Con t 'd  from page  11)  
"An-Ko-Pi,  No-Nee,"  a  little  
sister called.  "Did the Evil  Spirit  

People ever get hurt when they bothered the Wo-Wee or the Do­Mna or our corn planters?" 
"Oh, yes, indeed!" An-Ko-Pi smiled at the little one's wonder­ment. "Oftentimes the Evil Spirit People would be caught. If the moon was full and bright, they could be easily seen and often caught. Sometimes Wo-Wee or Do-Mna would catch and eat the Evil Spirit People. Sometimes, if the moon was bright enough, our corn planters would see them hid­ing in the grass or bushes and 
the corn planters would beat them with their dig-sticks. The animals and our people waged such a war on the Evil Spirit People that be­fore long they were nearly all gone . '' 
"What did happen to the Spirit people, No-Nee?" Ji-Pak questioned anxiously. "Were they all killed? Where are the Evil Spirit People now?" 
An-Ko-Pi smiled and shifted her bear skin lounging hide to a more comfortable position. "Remember last night when we gazed at the Moon? Remember how full and bright it was and how there were shadows cast by its brilliance?" 
"Yes, we remember," chorused the entire gathering. "It was beau­tiful.'' 
"Remember how the Nea-Tak grazed in the open meadow and how the old lookout Nea-Tak kept such a close watch for Wo-Wee and Yi-ka-yik (coyote) ? Well when the moon is full, the Nea-Tak can graze at night and the lookout can see all the animals and people. They are able to bound away with ease and not get caught. 11 
"That is good, isn't it, An-Ko­Pi?" questioned a small voice from the listeners. 
"It is indeed good for the Nea­Tak, " An-Ko-Pi smiled. "But it leaves the Wo-Wee's stomach emp­ty. It also keeps our hunters from slipping close enough to the Nea­Tak to shoot their arr ow. We, the people of this great lodge, also go hungr y. Remember too, that our warriors cannot take advantage of the darkness to scout our enemy camps. Our warriors cannot count coup on an enemy if the moon is shining so brightly. " 
" But, No-Nee," little Ji-Pak questioned in wonderment. "How does the Moon become so bright and then get so dark? 11 

"BAC KF IRE! " 

RELOCATION JOE 
, 'In my job, I have many people 
un er me!'' BACK IN THE BIG CITY 

THE FALL OF THE IROQUOIS 
(Cont'd from page 9 ) 
h Iroquois tribes were so far dvanced in agriculture that they more dependent upon their crops upon hunting for subsistence, th y had evolved the use of om of the arts of civilization from th ir ,,hite neighbors. Iroquois long i vams had been replaced by framed nd tone houses, many with chimneys 
•rn I lass windows; their extensive i ld were planted with corn and 
· and their orchards yielded an mm n e profusion of apples, pears, n I p · hes . All this prosperity was 
, a tated by white, civilized, chris­
tian colonial America! Th massacre was successful from military point of view, and once ain pro ed whiteman's superiority 1 h er brutality. Sullivan began 
' burning the Indian city of Che­mun,,.. H was challenged by a com-in d force of 1,500 Indians and 1 ie , but this was no match for ullivan' 5, 000 troops and latest militai weapons. The Indians were outnumbered and were in terror as th• rtillery threw a barrage of round hot and canisters at them. With thi defeat, Indian resistance to ulliv· n's army crumbled. In the rmath, as recorded in the journal Lieutenant from New Jersey, another officer found two Indians, shot them, and body of each was still 1 m' " kinned them from the hips ~ .n tor boot legs ; one pair for the hJor , _and the other for myself. 
P ni and testicles of the butch­
I ct·
n ian warriors were placed bi?~ch for a vulture's feast." m '. cwilized, christian, colonial 
1 1 
in 1 ~ad. had dared call the abori­n 1 ns savages!
I an\\ hil 
e, General James Clinton
1 
cect up the Mohawk Valley, as 
far as Canajoharie, and then turned southwest down the Susquehanna, burn­ing and devastating as they plundered the Iroquois lands. On August 22nd, the two armies met at Tioga and from there the combined forces under Sullivan plundered through the entire country of the Cayugas and Senecas, laying waste to the corn fields, burn­ing the villages and towns, and even cutting down the once immense pro­ductive fruit orchards. More than forty villages, several containing at least 130 buildings , were razed to the ground. In addition, 160,000 bushels of precious corn were burned. There is no accurate account of the number of various fruit trees deva­stated. 
The region devastated had come to be the most important domain of the Iroquois Confederacy. Like so many Indian conflicts to follow, the Indian was never to recover from General Washington's deliberate and planned massacre. The winter fol­lowing the massacre (1779-80) was one of the coldest ever known in America, so cold that even the har­bor of New York was frozen solid enough to carry troops and artillery across the ice from Staten Island to New York City. During the extreme winter, the homeless Cayuga and Seneca tribes were overtaken by famine, and as a result their num­ber diminished. 
The stronghold at Niagara was never wrested from Chief Thayen­danegea (Joseph Brant), a Mohawk chief. In this respect, Sullivan's expedition was a complete failure. He was never able to take his vast force past the Genesee River, and he returned to New Jersey in Oct­ober after devastating more than seven hundred miles. 
Before the winter was over, the Iroquois Confederacy had a split, and vengeance fell upon the Oneidas, who 
were now regarded as traitors to the Confederacy by the Mohawks, Senecas, and Cayugas. For more than two years, a reign of terror of the toma­hawk existed in the Mohawk Valley. The Mohawk Chief was fighting not so much for the British, but more for the survival of his own people. In no other part of the United States did the American Revolution entail so much suffering and white colonial, christian brutality, as on the lands of the Iroquois Confederacy. During the five years ending in 1781, the population was reduced to two thirds of its total, and in the remaining third there were more than three hundred widows and two thousand orphan children. American historians call it a phase of the American Revolution; but American Indians know it to be a definite phase of Indian liquidation, and in particular, a de­liberately planned massacre of the Iroquois tribes, by the Congressional appointed commander-in-chief, and later first president elected, of the now United States of America, George Washington. 
(To be continued next month) 
IN THESE UNITED STATES 1 
The Cold., llard Facts 
0 F 1 9 7 0 If you were an Indian... -Your life span would be 42 to 44 years, 21 years shorter than that of your fellow citi­zens; -Your income would be $1,500, 75 per cent below the national average, and $1,000 lower than the average black family; -You would have, on the aver­age, five years of schooling, and your probability of unem­ployment would be ten times the national average; -The mortality rate of your child during the first year of life would be twice that of a white baby; -The suicide rate of your teenager would be 100 times that of whites; --The odds would be 2-to-1 that your child would never finish high school and 100-to-1 that he would not graduate from college; -You would have a 400 per cent greater chance of con­tracting tuberculosis and an 800 per cent higher chance of acquiring hepatitis; -You would likely live without plumbing or bathing facilities in a two-or three-room board shack. 

River which at this point is from one quarter to one half mile wide, depending if it is at flood stage during the rainy season or not. 
But, of all things, the new mili­
tary regime in power in Peru ap­
parently is cranking up the rusted 
survey for the 100-mile link, and 
may order the road built. 
Then it must allocate the money 
and have it built, which is some­
thing else! Such road projects in 
this part of the world are not , 
usually, done very quickly. 
But as American missionary Jim 
Davidson of the South America In­
dian Mission group here said, 
"With the military behind it, the 
road just might get some action." 
In Rio Branco, Brazil recently, General Maldonado Yanez, Peru­vian minister of development, dis­cussed the project with officials of the Bolivian and Brazilian Gov­ernments. There is talk about starting work on the road this year. 
Who knows, perhaps the Indians of this land will get a break yet from the new government just as they benefited somewhat from Be­launde's 1964 land reform law which called for distribution of large land tracts to peasants. 
Meanwhile, the Indians remain primarily a mass of people whom the Spanish-Peruvians choose to "forget" just as the Spanish-Co­lombians "forget" the Indians who are mostly isolated in the Amazon River region of Colombia between 

Descendan ts of the Incas, two Peruvian Indians rest on the 
road to a villiage. 
Leticia and Miraflores. Miraflores 
is 250 miles southeast of Bogota, 
and 400 miles northwest of Leticia. 
A road from Miraflores to Leticia 
on the Amazon River could give 
Colombia another trade outlet to 
the Atlantic Ocean, open up vast 
areas of potentially mineral-rich 
jungle, and help include the Indians 
of Colombia in that neighboring 
country's economy. 
Leticia is a trade center usually 
visited on a boat trip to the At­
lantic Ocean from Pucallpa on the 
Ucayali River to Iquitos, Peru, on 
the Amazon River, to Manaus, 
Brazil. On the Negro River a few 
miles from the Amazon, Manaus 
is about 900 miles from the At­
lantic. 
Located in the jungle northeast of Lima, Pucallpa is a sort of "capital" for much of this country's huge indigenous population which lives in the jungle in the eastern part of this nation. Many other million Indians scrape an existence off the land in the Andes Moun­tains areas. 
Three times as large as Cali­fornia, Peru's population breakdow,n is: 46 per cent Indians; 11 per cent white and 43 per cent mes­tizo ( a mixture of both) . 
For the most part, the people of Spanish descent living in Peru have deliberately and ruthlessly squeezed the Indians out of the Peruvian economy except as sel­lers of beads, rugs, spears, jewel­ry and other such items. By ex­cluding them from the Peruvian economy, the Spanish-Peruvians have essentially economically con­trolled the Indians. They have simply been left out of a sizable piece of the economic action of the country. 
Although former President Be­launde put up a magnificently well equipped _iungle hospital here in this river city with dust filled streets, many of the Indians who go there are turned away for one predomi­nant reason: they are Indians. As many as possible are treated at the Albert Schweitzer Amazon Hos­pital. It is a small privately run hospital located about 6 miles from here near the Summer Insti­tute of Linguistics regional head­quarters at Yarinacocha. The Summer Institute of Linguistics has done much to bring the Indians at least a little closer to the main­stream of the economy by teaching them to read and write in incre­dibly remote areas of the jungle. Although the Spanish population in Peru boasts of what most speci ists consider to be the grea archaeological ruins in South erica (the stone city of Ma Pucchu 70 mile$ from Cusc these same Spanish-Peruvians always rated themselves better the Indians. 
Th8 Iroquois ''Lords Praver 
"Great Spirit, master all things, visible and invi ble; Great Spirit, master other spirits, whether g or evil; command the g spirits to favor thy childr command the evil spirits keep at a distance from them (Official History of the IOR 
The above invocation, 
examined deeply, bears a 
markable resemblance to 
of many of our own religio 
It may also be noted this prayer was in use 1 before our pilgrim forefathe even thought of coming to new world. 
In case your history elu you, the Iroquois were c sidered un-cultured. 

INDIAN RECIPES 
a short story 
"White Man's Way" 
AR CHI E BLACKS MITH 
( SI OU X) 
Many, many years ago, th ere were two Indians who went hunting and (because this is only a story) th ey got lost. 
The sun was directly overhead when they discovered that they didn't know where they were. 
The younger of the two came up with an idea which he had heard the White man uses when he becomes Iost. 
He told the older Indian that when the White man gets lost, he fires three shots into the air and then someone comes and finds him. They both agreed that this was the proper thing to do. 
They fired three shots and waited. Two hours later they fired three more shots and waited. 
By this time, the sun was going down and at one Iast desperate try, the younger Indian suggested 
that they try just once more. 
The older Indian said, "Too late, we only have two arrows 
Ieft 11 
• 
Think about it! 
MORAL: The white man's ways 
are no good to the Indian with 
improper tool s. 

HIPPEWA BOILED SAGE HEN 

:\IAH. CORN CANDY 
•·wa hon eh" 
1  ar  parched  corn.  Grind  
k  ls  and  mix  with  enough  
h  11  to  moisten.  Add  1  cup  

hopp d black walnut meats. Make int balls, moistening hands with il o candy won't stick. 
~-BLO VEGETABLE DIBH 
rn, onions, green pepper, 111 I quash. ut up onions and pepper. Boil 
in mall amount of water about 

minutes. Add whole kernel 
Heat to boiling and acid 
of squash (summer, crook­n k , or zucchini) and cook until 
qua h is just done. Season with 
alt. erve. 

ACOMA PAPER BREAD 
Take 3 or 4 handfuls of corn­meal and a little salt. Add then enough water to make a gruel. Cook until it is like porridge. 
Heat a very big flat rock on open fire. The rock must be hot enough to make a drop of water fly off. 
Take some of the dough and quickly wipe it across the rock. It cooks right away so peel it off when it ruffles on the edges. 
The best paper bread is very thin. 
BEAR FAT PASTRY CANADIENNE 
1-1/2 cups flour 1/2 tsp. salt 1/3 cup bear fat 
Makes rich white pastry. 

SUBSCRIPT ION DONATION FORM 
Lnclos ed is my subsc ripti o n d onation of Five 
Gollar s ($5.00). P l ease rr•a il th e n ext t we l ve i s s u f
s o ''Indian Vo ice' • to. 
.\IL TO · 
1 HEE'l 
/ II' ___
---------~ J' \l L 
• -1Jir~C,JJ~H~ \VOtJCtfE i~·,> 
.. P. 0. BOX 2 0 3 3 y~ 
SANTA CLARA , CALIF1ORNIA 95051 

~,~ INDIAN EVENTS ~,~ 
MARCH 1971 10 --Youth Nite Dinner, Inter­23 --Day Care Meeting, San Fran­tribal Friendship House, Oak­cisco Indian Center,7:30p.m.1 --San Jose Indian Center Board 
land 6-7 p. m. Meeting 
24 --BANAC Meeting10 --All American Indian Jaycees3 --BANAC meeting, San Fran­
meeting, ITFH, 7:30 p. m. 
24 --Youth Nite Dinner, ITFH,
cisco Indian Center, 7:30p. m . 
6 -7 p. m. 11 --Indian Woman's Club, Oak­3 --Youth Night Dinner, Inter­land Indian Center, 10 a. m. 
24 --All Ameri~an Indian Jaycees,
tribal Fr iendship House, Oak­to 2 p.m. 
ITFH, 7:30 
land, Everyone Welcome , 509 
per person, 6-7 p. m. 11 --San Jose Co-op meeting 25 --Indian Woman's Club, Oak­land Indian Center, 10 a.m.
3 --All American Indian Jaycees 13 --New Sioux Pow Wow, Silver 
to 2 p.m.
Meeting, Intertr ibal Friend­Creek High School on King 
ship House (ITFH), Oakland, South of Capitol Expressway 25 --San Jose Co-op Meeting,
7:30 p. m . For information 
Call Esther Gee, 251-1947
call Phil Swain, 273-7412 
13 --Dance, San Francisco Indian Center, 9:00 p.m. , Live 
26 --All-American Indian Invi­
4 --Indian Woman's Club, Oak­Music, Admission, $1. 50 
tational Basketball Tourna­
land Indian Center, 10 a.m. 
ment, Contact Phil Swain,to 2 p. m. For infor mation 14 --Haskell Institute Alumni As­273-7412 
contact Mrs. Marin sociation Potluck Meeting ­Call Beaman Wisdom, 225­
27 --All-American Indian Invi­4 --San J ose Co-op meeting, 
0269 for information 
tational Basketball Tourna­
call Esther Gee for infor­
ment 
mation at 251-1947 
15 --San Jose Indian Center Board meeting 
27 --UAI Pow Wow, Lee Mathson5 --POW WOW, San Francisco School
Indian Center, 9 p. m. 17 --BANAC meeting 
27 --Dance, San Francisco Indian
6 --Bay Area Poww ow, Inter-
Center, 9: 00 tribal Friendship House, 17 --Youth Nite Dinner, ITFH, 
Oakland 6-7 p. m. 
28 --All-American Indian Invi­tational Basketball Tourna­
6 --Dance, San Francisco Indian 17 --All American Indian Jaycees Center, Live Music, 9 p. m. meeting, ITFH, 7:30 p. m. ment Admission, $1. 50 
28 --Chiefettes Basketball Team
18 --Indian Woman's Club, Oak­
sponsors Pancake Breakfast
6 --DANCE , Indian Voice, Com­land Indian Center 10 a. m. 
9-12 noon, Call ITFH for 
munications Union Hall, 902 to 2 p.m. 
informationNewhall St. , one block from 
the Alameda, 9-1 a. m. $1. 00 18 --San Jose Co-op Meeting, 
29 --San Jose Indian Center Board
donation, Refreshments, the Call Esther Gee, 251-1947 Meeting
Unique Five will play 20 --POW WOW, Oakland, YMCA, 
31 --BANAC Meeting
8 --San Jose Indian Center Board 45th Avenue Meeting 
31 --Youth Nite Dinner, ITFH,
20 --Dance, San Francisco Indian 
6 -7 p. m.
9 --Day Care Meeting, San Fran­Center, 9 p. m. cisco Indian Center, 7:30 p. m. 
31 --All-American Indian Jaycees
22 --San Jose Indian Center Board 
Meeting, ITFH, 7:30
10 --BANAC Meeting Meeting 
~.,JfJff!l!»f!JiH~ IVOtJC!ff, 
3
~ SANTA ;~~/o;A~~:. 9505 1 1 
Time Value Return Requested Dated mat 

