

Not just another Indian book . a GENUINE legend. 
Told in the true fashion of a Hageotah (story teller), The Secret of No Face has never been recorded before. It's a tale of Utgo (evil) and Orenda (the power for good) and provides a unique glimpse of Iroquois culture and tradition. 
Written by an actual Seneca Pine Tree Chief and his life-long friend Oledoska, the volume includes full color illustrations and sketches. It will fascinate both young and old readers. 
Cloth Edition $6.95, Paperback $3.95 
'"This is a delightful and illuminatin,g Seneca folk tale." , 

--LIBRARY JOURNAL 
"It is a sincere effort to communicate a genuine Seneca leg­end or ·telling'." 
--INDIAN VOICE 

Check or Money Order payable to: 
NATIVE AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO. P.O. Box 2033 Santa Clara, Ca. 95051 
IND/AN VOICE 


'fhe National American Indian Council offers you a 
unique assortment ofgreeting cards...which you11 be 
proud to use throughout the year 

AIIIIOne Shell Necklaces two necklaces are typical of those used widely 
g Pacific Coast Indians as dance ornaments. lleolog ical findings indicate an exceedingly long ld1t1on of abalone shell ornaments. These necklaces e made by a member of the Pomo Indians of ern California. 
Pomo Feathered Basket 

This fine coiled basket decorated with feathers and abalone shell pendants comes from the Pomo people of Northern California. They were highly prized treasures and were given as gifts, sometimes to a shaman in reward for his performance on a ceremonial occasion or for a successful healing. Abalone ornaments are extremely old among Pacific Coast 
cultures. 

For the first time, authentic American Indian artifacts and objets d'art, faithfully reproduced in full color on high gloss stock, can now grace your Christmas greetings or personal notes. They are offered in an economical assortment, specially packaged and priced, by the National American Indian Council. Authenticated by the Lowie Museum of the University of California, these ~ els are selected to illustrate the scope and inten­llty of previously overlooked native art forms. 
AD Proceeds from the sale of these cards go to help the American Indian, in a variety of projects 5POnsored by NAIC. The council, composed of more than a thousand Indian organizations, 
~ ~ecognized ~y the White House in May as the official national organization for the 
non-reserv t· I • 
a ion ndian. The Council is self­:!~rting, and this is its first effort at raising its 
v..,u funding. 
San Ildefonso Black Ware Pot 
This pot from the San Ildefonso Pueblo in New Mexico is believed to be one of the first signed pots made by Maria Martinez and decorated by her husband, Julian, who invented the technique for making this now famous style of pottery. This pot was purchased from Maria in 1923 or 1924. 
This special assortment of 48 cards and matching envelopes is attractively priced to introduce you to our full line. 
Rarely could you expect to receive such a value ... or to do so much for a worthy cause. Please send the coupon today, and allow 45 days for delivery. 




r------------------------­
1 National American Indian Council I Belli Building I San Francisco, CA 94111 
I . I enclos·e $6 for the special 48-cards and envelopes set I . I enclose $10 for two sets, 96 cards in all : . Please enclose your illustrated list of additional cards 
I Name____________________ I 
· I Address.__________________ I 
_________________Zip____
I 
I I enclose 50¢ for postage and handling. I IV California residents add sales tax. 

2 !NbfAN VOICE 


AN AMERICAN INDIAN CHILD NEEDS YOU AS ASPONSOR AND PERSONAL FRIEND ... 
A friend to help. A friend to write to. A friend to share his-or her-joy as a young life is transformed from ap­palling hardship to bright new hope and pride-because of your com­passion. 
Sponsoring an American Indian child through Futures For Children can work many wonders: 
• 
Keep "your child" in school by directly financing shoes, clothing, and other necessities. (Right now many Indian chil­dren have little more than the threadbare clothes on their backs.) 

• 
Open a ·new .world "beyond the reservation" for your child through your concerned friend­ship. 

• 
Provide hope, self-esteem and confidence-perhaps for the first time in a child's life. 


Decide now to sponsor a young Indian boy or girl. It will be a rewarding ex­perience for your entire family. 
7

r@FUTURES FO~HILDRE; 1

I ~ 5612 Parkston Road,
I Washington, D.C. 20016 I 
Yes, I (we) want to sponsor an 
I
I . 
American Indian child . . . I . a boy . a girl . either I Enclosed is a check for $_____I ($15 monthly; $45 quarterly; $90 I semi-annually; $180 annually)I . Here's help, not as a Sponsor, but II with a check for $_____ 
. Please send more information.
I1 
I Name I 
I Address · I 


LCity-State-Zip ______J 


which we affect in Europe, -fl,twealt1d Jewels, pearls and other as go hId of no value at all. • • 
J,ts, thtY ~o liberal in giving that thtY are tion when they deny you 
. tht exceP 
" 

thing· -AMERIGO VESPUCCI 
AMERICAN PUBLISHING rJVE coMPANY 
IND/AN VOICE . 3 





indian
-

\IOICC 



es1den t Dakota 
ern Eastman, 
d Of Directors 
b 

an Chavers, Lum .ee h d Green Oneida
' . k t 

rchie Blacksmith, La o a nn Hansen, Acoma Carole Stubbs, Da~ota en Ryan, A~enak, 1 aRyan, Chippewa rthur Millard, Quechan 

VOLUME Ill, No. 2 APRIL 1-973 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
EDITORIAL CARTOON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 MAIL CALL ...................... .. ......................... 4 59 HOURS AT WOUNDED KNEE/ Richard G. Green.. .... .... 6 TROUBLE AT AKWESASNE / Dean Chavers .................. 11 WITH THE LAST INDIANS OF CUBA/Antonio Nunez Jimenez. 14 TO BE INDIAN IN L.A./ Sandra Osawa . .... .. ........ . ....... 16 CANADA'S OPPOSITION PARTY PROCLAIMS NEW INDIAN POLICY/ AIPA .......... .. .... .... ........ 18 CAMP COHESION/ Nyles Ryan . .... .......... .. . . ......... . 21 NATIVE AMERICAN ART/ Joe Waano-Gano .... ............. 23 SHORT STORY: THE COMING / Richard G. Green ........... 26 INDIAN POWER IN HUMBOLDT COUNTY/ Bobby Lake & Dean Chavers .. . . . ................. .... ... 39 WIGWAM EVENINGS/ Charles and Elaine Eastman ........... 42 AIPA KEYNOTE SPEECH/ Dean Chavers ...... .............. 43 FOLLOW-UP .... ....... ...... .......... ..................... 45 TRAIL OF BROKEN TiREATIES DEMANDS & ANSWERS, AIPA ......... .......... ........ ... ... ................... 47 AROUND INDIAN COUNTRY . ............................... 48 
------------Editors____________ 
Fern Eastman, Dakota Dean Chavers, Lumbee Richard Green, Oneida
------------staff____________ 
Robert Meigs, Choctaw-Cherokee Nyles Ryan, Chippewa-Abenaki 
Ken Ryan, Abenaki Karen Ryan, Dakota 
Archie Blacksmith, Lakota Ann Hansen, Acoma 

Oneoda, Chippewa Carole Stubbs, Dakota 
Indian Voice, the all-Indian newsmagazine ©copyrighted (1973) by ative American Publishing Company, a non-profit organization. It will endeavor to present an authentic glimpse of all aspects of Native life, past and present, written from the Indian viewpoint. No part of it may be reprinted without permission. Editorial offices are located at 90 S. 2nd St., San Jose, Ca. 951 13. However, all cor­respondence must be addressed to: P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, Ca. 95051. Manuscripts and art materials are welcome but no respon­sibility can be assumed for unsolicited materials. Names ofcharacters in short stories and poetry are fictitious. Writers and photographers should query. Indian Voice is published monthly except July and August with second class postage paid at San Jose, Ca. Single copy price is 75 cents. Subscription rates are: $7.50 for one year, $15.00 for two years and $22.00 for three years. Foreign and Canadian subscribers must add $1.00 per year for additional handling expenses. Printed in U.S.A. by union printers. 
4 IND/AN VOICE 


Quakers 
are more 
than a 
bunch of 

do-gooders. Some even carry flags. 
There are 190,606 Quakers in the world-119,934 in the United States. 
Not one prescribes the kind of flag (if any) another Quaker carries. Or his drum. Or piccolo. 
Quakers (members of the Society of Friends) are religious. No flags for that. 
Quakers seek the Inner Light in their relationships with God and man. No flags here, either. 
Their flags are their testimonies and concerns: Peace. Love. Family. Education. Environment. Equality of sexes and races. That of God in every man. Prison reform. Justice. Simplicity. Brotherhood. Caring. 
That's been going on for 319 years. There's nothing static about it. The search goes on always and in many ways. 



FRIENDS JOURNAL 
in its simple, modest way, tries twenty-one times a year to reflect Quaker life and thought today and raise a flag here and there about man's condition. 
Even if you do not want a flag, the coupon below and a few dollars may give you something important: Inspiration. Comfort. Hope. Love. 
We will not try to make a flag­waver, a Quaker, or anything else out of you. Maybe together we can do some good. 
Friends Journal, 152-A N. 15th Street, Philadelphia 19102 
Nam..._____________ 
Stree,._____________ 
City_ _ ___________ 
Statec,______ _ _L,Zip____ _ 
Please send me Friends Journal for 6 months ($3.00); one year ($5.50). (Payment enclosed). 
Dear American: 

We are eager to hear a legitimate "Ameri­can" voice. While admittedly our organiza­tion seeks the preservation of the covered wooden bridge-a typical caucasian relic, be assured the preservation of the original American culture-indeed yours-touches our min'ds frequently. 
Accept my mortal apologies for being white-a descendant of originators of the Manifest Destiny. Please accord me the chance to understand the modern American Indian-the chance to help him, today at Wounded Knee, and today in the South­west, or wherever and whenever. Tomorrow is too late! 
WM. H. BRANDENBURG Indiana Covered Bridge Society Plainfield, Indiana 
If you want to help, write your Congress­man, expressing your displeasure with the 
U.S. Government's failure to honor more than 371 treaties with Indian Nations. Per­haps a signed petition would be even more effective. Thank you for your support. 
* * * To the Editors: I am once again subscribing to Indian Voice because I think it is such an excellent, versatile magazine-one of the best Native American publications I have yet seen. I particularly enjoyed, in the August-Septem­ber 1972 issue, the photographs of the"Trail of Broken Treaties" and the article on In­dian Education. I wish you continuing success. Indian Voice seems to be getting better all the time. 
MARY GRESS 
Portland, Oregon 

Thank you for the compliment, bigger and better issues are yet to come I 
* * * Dear Editors: I have been interested in your people for years-but in the last two years this interest has blossomed into something wonderful and beautiful. The history of your people is wonderful to me. Though I am white, my wife has commented I am more Indian than white. My people do not understand you or your people. Had my race kept their part of the 

treaties they wrote in the past th" be · diff eren_t between our rac:s t~~ my race given the rightful owners · !an? a chance, there would have of mc1dent at the BIA in Washingt 
. .d h . on or
mc1 ent t at 1s now going on at W0Knee, South Dakota. 
~ support Y<?U and your work fully. I Y<?Ur fnendsh1p, as well as those of fnends. My heart burns for Indian fi. but here in Indiana there are not turn to. 
God forbid, I do not forsake m For there have been a few whites in the who have cared. But despite those 'fi am also disappointed in the State ofl for not remembering and honoring past and living great. ChiefTecum h Turtle, Godfry, and the Prophet mong the most noble. 
I have laid bare my heart to you. you correspond with me personally? you tell me more of the things of people my heart speaks out for? 
In tr'ue friendship, 
Coatesville, Indiana 

Personal correspondence to our friends is difficult; we hope the you seek will be found in the magi 
Don't be ashamed ofyour color-tht 
tor has a place for all living things. your place could be a campaign to about recognition for those leaden mentioned. Especially Tucemseh, 
the Great Spirit endowed with man 
ceptional gifts. 
* * * 

Comments in the form of letters are come. Indian Voice editors reserve the to edit material submitted. Please your letter to: Mail Call, P.O. Bo Santa Clara, CA 95051. 




A SPECIAL ISSUE OF THE LEGISLATIVE REVIEW 
As a special project sponsored by the Impact Survey Team under the coordination of the National Congress of American Indians, the Legislative Review, Vol. 2, No. 1, is devoted entirely to a comprehen­sive look at the occupation of the BIA building that took place in November, 1972, an event having a far-reaching effect on the entire Indian community. 
This unique issue is the result of a cooperative effort of the American Indian Press Association (AIP A), the Institute for the Development of Indian Law (IDIL), and Indian Legal Information Development Service 
(I-LIDS). 

Articles in the issue include: •In the Caravan's Wake-An Unstable Status Quo •A Chronology of Events •7 Days in November-A Photo Essay •For the Record •The Judicial Proceedings •Perspective­Bureaucracy of Indian Affairs 
To order your copy of this special issue, clip and mail the order blank below along with your check or money order for $2.00 per copy. 
Indian Legal Information Development Service (I-LIDS) 1785 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W. Suite 112 Washington, D.C. 20036 
Name Address______________Zip_____ No.of copies __Amount enclosed___Check_ Money order_ 

6 IND/AN VOICE 


IND/AN VOICE 7 
An on-the-spot account of whafs happening and why. 
f THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 1973 :10 P Id 0 -vercast day and a few specks of snow It a ~ ctmyface while I loaded camera and sound 

again s_ to the trunk of a rented car. I had been 
· ent in · 

uipm find a :ride with two camera women who were rt~nate ~oocumentary for a Salt Lake City TV station. ilnung a eturniog to Wounded Knee after a six-day 
ere r R .d c· . d
e pulled away from api ity airport an:C~e. o uth toward the Badlands. 
: p~ through Pine Ridge, an Oglala city of 1,300
P mg . k . h BIA 
noted a group of protesters pie etmg t e 

pe, we .
I

·id· Their placards read: WIison Wants Blood:

UI mg. .
In tigator of Wounded Knee Massacre; Our ln­~a Die. I estimated this group to number about 40 on . w e didn't stop, we were racing a6 PM_u_ltima­um i ued by the Justice Department and anticipated 0 ring p roblems at Wounded Knee. We knew the rnment controlled all the roads and had threatened 
0 

0 remo e AIM warriors by force if necessary. 
. PM e pa ed through a federal roadblock. Five khaki-uniformed agents thoroughly checked the car, the camera 
uipment and our identification. They advised us that ould have to leave Wounded Knee by 4:30 PM. They ould no be responsible for our safety after that hour. thanked them and drove on. Tucked around the bend the road we encountered the second half of their check­int. It consisted offive U-Haul trucks and 20 men, their old badges glinting from an emerging afternoon sun. ut 1-1 / 2 miles further we zig-zagged through two med-out trucks. Two AIM warriors wearing red head­d glanced inside the car and waved us on. 

3:25 PM 

We entered the Tipi Wakan (Church of God) parking lot in 'wounded Knee. There was a strategy meeting in ses­sion so we left to take pictures of the Sacred Heart Catholic Church which dominates the landscape above the town. We were told that two jet planes (Phantom jets from Offutt AFB, Omaha) had buzzed the area and 46 Armored Personnel Carriers were nestled in the hills. I looked toward the hills and saw nothing. One of the warriors offered me a look through a transit mounted atop a cement-block post. Approximately two miles away, a snub-nosed vehicle with tank treads and a 30 cal. machine gun mounted on its front shelf smiled at me. 
We had an informal chit-chat with Dennis Banks, Carter Camp and John Wahwassuck. I had a report that on March 7, an Indian car was under fire and crashed. Two of its occupants were hurt; one with a broken back. An agreement from a government representative allowed two men to bring the seriously injured man out of Wounded Knee for medical treatment. After taking him to a hospital under the Red Cross banner, they were arrested and jailed. Even the injured man. I asked them about this incident and got confirmation. I also asked about the hostages. "I never said we had any hostages," Dennis Banks laughed. "What I said was we have com­plete control of the town." 

4:15 PM 

In anticipation of the 6 pm showdown with the Justice Department, the AIM men prepared for war. Some 80 warriors received war paint and spiritual guidance in their native tongue from Crow Dog, a Lakotah medicine man. Most of them carried shotguns, 22's and 30-06 hunting rifles. I saw no other weapons except for an occasional small caliber pistol. 
Wounded Knee ... not a very big town. 

·8 IND/AN VOICE 

5:00 PM 

I went to the cemetary behind the Sa to take pictures of the 1890 wounde:e; 
Hean grave site. The 300 people buried th slaughtered below the hill by General Gere Were old regiment, the Seventh U.S. Cavalry elrge A. outlines the trench where their fro~e dumped and a simple granite market co; deed. 
5:15 PM 

. A~ old blue ~adillac raced into the church kmg its horn. With arms upraised, Dennis B {~
d tly announced: "The Government's just ba~~e~JU Shouts of acknowledgment came from th gathered around the tipi. Banks immediate! e w the church basement to inform people who WY w n 
"S b d . h Wh. ere
ome o y m t e ite House has interve d . behalf," he said. "We do know they've backedn~ but hang in there." 0 
5:45 PM 

A meeting was cal~ed in the Command Post, 
a 
f?ur-room house. which_ had been one of four pro 
sites owned by Chve Gmldersleeve, a white trader. 
I learned that AIM had an option to buy 42 a 
eluding the trading post, museum, several hom 
much of the 1890 Wounded Knee massacre site. I 
learned that Dick Cavett was preparing to com 
New York to broadcast a two-hour special on A Leaders, lawyers and representatives of the 
Council of Churches held a closed door session. Dar 
settled over the village. 
6:00 PM 

I talked to many people about the background 
o tivities that led to the armed confrontation. Wilson's 'goon' squad came down to my house in Ridge and burned my mat and door," an attractive woman said. "We called the cops (BIA Police). A came up and hit my dad in the face. My brother,just from Vietnam, pushed the woman away and about cops jumped on him and beat him up. They don't because Russell Means comes to visit us sometim 
"This whole thing happened because of one paranoia," another woman said. "When Russell announced his candidacy Dickie Wilson got scared. afraid of AIM because they're honest and he's croo You know Fool's Crow made Russell Means hono chief of the Oglala Sioux the middle of last s 



w in his eighties, is the recognized Crow,_ ~~nd medicine man of the Oglala Sioux. ore powerful than any other Lakotah or 
dlc1ne ism

Hi me . ,, 
·otah)_ council is paid two to four weeks ahead, a
1

fhe_tn~~ t tribal council members would support n .aid. ?se afraid "Tricky Dick" will cut them off 
I. but_ thefi:ries are back to normal. The~ tr_ied to 
until their_ Each councilman represents a district but ch him. h h. k d " 
1111 a_ time to vote, t ey c 1c ene out. 
h n it c~~e Wilson get in if he's so crooked?" I asked. 
H_ow e I eople know about his reputation?" 
1 n t th / a lot of promises to the half-breeds and those 
He mah~ have BIA jobs in Pine Ridge. On this 
ople . the voting booths are scattered around. Due 
r,att0n f h · · h p·
f transportation or t e maJonty, t e me 
a lack O ,,
le control the vote.
0

Ridgw:;a~ interrupted, "D_urin_g the ele~ti_on he_ even_had ming in from Rapid City and g1vmg Pme Ridge op~ 1 coddre s I know because I heard him call them on
their a · th 

fh~~:~' that a concerned Oglala Sioux Civil Rights
I 

.e~zation had been created to oust the corrupt tribal
rgani . . 
cil and the government system established by the 8 u~au of Indian Affairs. The current system, formed byt 1934 Reorganization Act, is a facade for government t ontrol and must be removed before Indian sovereignty n be realized. Pedro Bisonette, one ofOSCRO's leaders id. "One of our goals is to circumvent this by setting up 
ur own cooperatives owned and run by Indians." 
l.Jnder federal law, those who lease Indian land can r eive grants to buy cattle and get started as ranchers or f rmer . But Indians do not qualify for such aid. Thus, many are forced to live off welfare or lease their land through the BIA. Unfortunately, the current tribal coun­
il doe nothing about the situation and the tribal 
hairman profits from it. 

: 0 PM report came in that sporadic gun fire had broken out on Porcupine Road, two miles from Wounded Knee. Two 
arrior were hit, one in the hand, the other in the leg. There were no doctors or adequate medical supplies han­d_ . I pondered the fate of the wounded men. 
: 0 PM loud boom came from outside the command post. ~e of the cooks, a delightful, middle-aged woman quipped, "Heavy artillery." She was stirring a huge pot on th tove. 
./NO/AN VOICE 
I asked her if she had ever been threatened. "My whole family's been threatened by Tuffy Sierra and Bobby Richards. I told the Federal Marshalls and they did nothing. I was against what Dickie Wilson was doing. Several old people got beat up. We had them sign and deliver statements to those Marshalls but nothing happened. That's why we called AIM. We didn't know things would turn like this." She continued her stirring. "The whole reservation is scared. The vigilantes and the white ranchers are all in favor of Dickie Wilson because of favors he affords them." 
"Do you mind if I use your name?" I asked. 
"I don't mind if you use my name, it's the truth. I wouldn't tell you any lies-I just don't care anymore. Things couldn't be worse anyway. We invited AIM here but the newspapers make it look like they came here looking for trouble. We feel bad about those boys taking the blame for what's going on here. All this trouble is Dick Wilson's fault." 


6:55 PM 

A dynamite blast shook the house. We learned that shortly after 6 p.m. Federal Marshalls opened fire on an AIM position. The Indians hit the dirt and one was wounded while lying on the ground. Both men were Oglala Sioux warriors and Crow Dog (Medicine Man) was operating on the wounded man's leg. A bullet had passed through the hand of the other man. 
7:00 PM 

The cook continued. "The people had to sign a paper and give their Social Security numbers when they went to conduct any business in the BIA building. This scared the ole people-they thought their pensions would be cut off. They split an old lady's head open when she protested, you know. Lots of our people didn't get their lease money from white ranchers. The whites pay their money to the BIA and when the people come to collect the answer is, 'No funding on your account.' Some ofthem are put injail if they protest." 
"Sounds like the tribal chairman's a pretty smart man." I said. 
"He's not that smart, it's the men behind him. Toby Eagle Bull and John Richards write up Dick Wilson's speeches and letters. Wilson has trouble speaking and spelling." 
"How long has this been going on?" 
"All this trouble started about a year ago when he took office. We used to have an emergency medical fund for old people and diabetics but since Wilson's been tribal 
10 IND/AN VOICE 
chairman there's no emergency fund anymore. Nobody knows where the money goes to. He makes people heap­points to BIA jobs pay taxes-all employees pay taxes to the tribe. People who have lease money are taxed. He even gave tribal council members and himself a raise since he's been in office." 
Reports such as this were not uncommon among the people of Wounded Knee. I heard stories about a $32,000 race horse, $12,000 vintage cars and liquor purchased by the case. One person speculated that Wilson was trying to bankrupt the Oglala Sioux nation. "Wilson is under suspect that he's not even an Indian," one woman said. "We're checking. Lots of people say they can prove he's not an Indian. He never owned any land here until he became tribal chairman." 
I was told that Aaron DeSersa, a Rosebud Sioux newspaper publisher began exposing some of Wilson's · tactics in his Shannon County News. His house was fire­bombed in Pine Ridge and the 'goon' squad demolished his type-setting equipment. People are thrown in jail in Pine Ridge when they get together to protest. Sometimes people are singled out and asked if they belong to AIM. 
8:35 PM 

Reports that a supply plane with food, blankets and medical supplies arrived. Later, I learned that two Michigan men, one a 46 year old Doctor, were arrested by three FBI agents in Muskegon. They had made a food drop the previous day and were charged with interfering with federal officers in performance oftheir duties during a civil disorder. 

9:55 PM 

I heard two shotgun blasts fifteen seconds apart. Then four more at intervals of five seconds. 
10:00 PM 

We watched a news broadcast over WTTE TV Channel 3, Rapid City. Reverend Ralph Abernathy said, "I would hope the violence would stop. We have been successful since Martin Luther King's death and hope they recognize this." 

10:45 PM 

Received word that Dick Cavett's proposed two-hour TV special was cancelled. It was disclosed that the Justice Department felt "it would be inflammatory". ABC backed down leaving Cavett with no support. 
I asked Dennis Banks about the effects the wounded men would have on negotiations. 
"Had the two wounded men been killed 
th have been on," he said in a deliberate tone ',,T~War the cease-fire, not us. They tried to kill ~h 
"What about amnesty for you and you ose rn "We don't care about amnesty. Those M · fired and hit those two men should not har ha
ll 
. b . . ave am
either. We are nngmg murder charges a . Marsh~lls. Who ~uthorized_ the use of Arm;~~t M 16 nfles? Thats Army Vietnam war issue b . 
. Wh . h b ein
agamst us. at cnme as een committed b One of the lawyers threw seat cushions frorn ihu on the 0oor,.stretched out and closed his eyes. 
1the cushions mto a mattress took off my boots 
blanket and went to sleep. 'gra 

9:45 AM FRIDAY MARC H 9, 1973 
Strategy meeting at Command Post regardingp 
. change due to last night's shooting. A radio br:: interrupted proceedings. Congressman Jame Abou 
(See pa Bo11om: A IM guards inspect ,NCC vehicle. Below: Catholi cemetary marker Jar 1890 Wounded Knee massacre. 

IND/AN VOICE 11 
Inside-story of Rarihokwats (Editor of Awkwesasne Notes) and Can-Am government harassment of the Mohawk Nation. 
ho is technically a Canadian 

-nw . . h
technically a w!utema~, 1~ at t e f tone of the most 11ve y con-in the Indian world today. ~ is the expression of tradition­
• thought m the face of the mod­..ld and the place is one of the last olds of traditional Indian ways east coast. 
Gambill, as he was once called, to the St. Regis (Akwesasne is the 
•k name) reservation in 1965 as a 
·ty development officer in the of the Canadian Department of Affairs. His job with the De­
nt lasted 18 months, but he has Jiving and working on the reserva­in upstate New York ever since. lot has happened on the reserva­lillce that time. Jerry was adopted the Bear clan and given the name 

kwats. With the Long house peo­traditional followers ofthe Code llalldsome Lake, Rarihokwats has an Indian periodical, Akwesasne into the largest and most effec­
oice for the Native American In­the continent today. started from a non-paid circu­
of 900 in December of 1968 send­past-up of newspape; clip­bout a blockade by Mohawks of 
IC across the St. Lawrence River 
t of being forced to pay duty o~ they carried across it. With the ue of the paper, they went to off­

press, and with the fifth or sixth is­re was enough money coming in for the next issue. And now with 
ul · ' 
. ation over 40,000, the paper is paying for its expenses. Staff mem­ve to be supported from other 
sources. _a Canadian citizen become Wt~h this international move­
I
o<lians? When Gambill as he ~ called, came to the r;serva­ianugust. of 1965, he came as the of thee6~1yalent of the U.S. offi­(OEQ) fice ?f Economic Oppor­
' which flooded the U.S. 

reservations with great hopes and air­conditioned offices during the 1960's. 
He made the "mistake" of becoming involved with Longhouse people after he came to the reservation. There are two (or more) factions on Akwesasne, just as there many factions on most res­ervations throughout North America. Usually there are so many factions it is impossible to label them all, which really frustrates some anthropologists. In general, the factions break down on St. Regis according to two lines -the progressives, or acculturated Indians on the one hand, and the traditionalists, who hold on to traditional Indian relig­ion and customs, on the other. 
Gambill got along too well with the Longhouse people. He took his job, which was described as comunity devel­opment, literally to mean human devel­opment, and as a result became very in­terested in the people themselves, rather than economic development or hous­ing, which is what the Canadian gov­ernment officials wanted. 
Human development is probably the last thing they wanted. For cen­turies the U.S. and Canadian govern-

Rarihokwats, Editor of Akwesasne Notes. 
ments have declared it to be their policy that the Indian is to be assimilated into the mainstream of American life as soon as possible, and practically all their pro­grams point in this direction. They want the Indian to get ajob in a factory, punch a time clock, and send his kids to the whitemans' schools. Human devel­opment, starting with the people where they are, doesn't fit into their plans. 
Gambill was given orders by his superior, the Asistant Regional Direc­tor of the Ontario office of Indian Af­fairs, not to be too friendly with the Longhouse people, who are against the economic exploitation of the reserva­tion. He asked for this order to be put into writing, and his superior refused. 
Instead, the Regional Director for Ontario came to the reservation, and in a public meeting in the fall of 1966, an­nounced that Gambill had requested a transfer to a northern Canadian reser­vation. When Gambill protested that he had never requested such a transfer, the Regional Director quietly asked him to reconsider, to accept the transfer, or to make verbal assurances that he would not maintain his ties with the Long­house people. Again he refused. 
Finally, the Director stated in a letter that he was being fired because he "could not get along with the Indian people on the reservation." Since he had then been on the job for 18 months, Gambill protested that he could not be fired summarily; after six months, the temporary period for Civil Service em­ployees is over, and they are then con­sidered permanent employees. Gambill was, however, informed that he had had his period of probation extended, with­out his knowledge, and that he could be summarily fired. He naturally had no recourse. 
The episode itself escalated into the death throes of the community devel­opment program in the Canadian De­partment of Indian Affairs. The Canadian press gave the whole issue good coverage, and "Sunday," one 
12 IND/AN VOICE 

of the major public affairs programs of 
the Canadian Broadcasting Company, 
devoted one whole program to the situ­
ation on the St. Regis reservation. But the upshot was that the Community development program of the Canadian government was disbanded. 
Gambill by this time had decided not to be quiet about the whole thing. Even though he had been fired , he decided to remain on the reservation. He had come to be accepted by the reservation people, which most whites have trouble doing, and the reasons were that he did not come to them as an expert, or another authority on Indians and their needs; he came to them as another human being, who was sincerely interested in their welfare, and when he had made that commitment, he found he could not leave just because the Department ofIn­dian Affairs job ended. Two of the traditional men found him a house, and he has remained there. 
In the meantime, while still living on the reservation, he has worked at other jobs off the reservation, one of them a teaching job in Vermont, during which time he became acquainted with the Wesleyan University Indian Studies Program at Middletown, Connecticut, under whose auspices most ofthe copies of Akwesasne Notes have been printed. 
Since the initial controversy over his firing, and the bridge blockade, (which was an expression of the traditional people of their treaty-guaranteed right to cross, without paying duty, the Canadian-American bridge which runs through the reservation) the whole reservation has become embroiled in a 
series ·of controversies and con­
frontations, most of which center 
around the growth of the newspaper, 
and the corresponding growth of in­
fluence of the Longhouse people, who 
are the chief supporters. 

The bridge blockage, which happened 
while Gambill was teaching in Vermont, 
saw 48 people jailed on various charges. 
One of the immediate needs was for 
furids for their bail and court charges, so 
Gambill and some ofthe others from the 
Longhouse gathered some newspaper 
clippings of the incidents surrounding 
the blockade, and with these pasted 
down, had 900 of them printed and dis­
tributed through the mail. This was the 
first of the papers which in time became 
Akwesasne Notes, and which today oc­
cupies most of the time of some eight 
people. The second issue was basically 
the same format, the same type of 
material, but the third issue was printed 
on an offset press, and instead ofrelying 
entirely on paste-up material reprinted 
from other sources, the editors started 
generating some original material of 
their own. 

By the time the forth issue came out it 
was called Akwesasne Notes, and had 
come to have an identity of its own. 
Even up to this time the poeple working 
on the paper had no idea where they 
were going; they had no intention of the 
paper becoming a permanent 
institution. But with the rash of people 
sending in to be on the mailing list (there 
are no subscriptions, only donations), 
they decided to continue publishing it. 
That has remained the norm with the 
publication. With each issue, there is 
usually just enough money to pay for the 
costs of printing and so on, but not 
enough to pay for anything else. With 
the circulation now at over 40,000, the 
publication cost for each issue is over 
$5,000, which is paid out ofthe proceeds 
of the publication, but there is not 
enough in the coffers to pay for staff 
expenses. For this the staff people have 
to rely on the sale of posters and books; 
apparently the newspaper will never pay 
for more than its own immediate costs 
of printing and production. 

Which is just as well with the staff. 
They are all from the Akwesasne 
reservation, and all are traditionalists 
from the Longhouse religion. They have 
no desire to set up a huge staffand run a 
magazine efficiently in the whiteman's 
sense. They are more interested in 
keeping the magazine all Indian, and to 
this end reject the super-organization of 
the typical whiteman publication. 

And even before the publication got its start, they had formed their own communications unit, the White Roots of Peace. Proceeding from the teaching of Deganawidah, the Iroquois prophet of centuries ago, the members of the White Roots communications unit have travelled hundreds of thousands of miles across the North American con­tinent in the past five years, telling people about the teaching ofthe prophet and about the Iroquois way of life, which they have been taught for hun­dreds of years. It is the competition between this group and the progressives on the reservation which has caused much of their trouble. 

Police Harassment 

In the past few years, and mostly in 
the past year, the Longhouse people 
have been harassed by the FBI, the 
Internal Revenue Service, the local 
police, the border patrol, and numerous 
other public and private groups. 

In the travels of the White Roots of 
Peace, many of the young men of the 
reservation have gained sk· ma_de them leaders on the This has been highly r re
.b I . esent
tn a council, the pupp t on the reservation. And wehgo·1 h en
chounc1 ~ t e progressives, saw appenmg to their pow
. er 

started reactmg. They bro h 
.. t ,, ug t
?wfln experf s to try to coun m uence o the traditional 1
. e 
werd~ ~mergmg, and the hospi tra 1t1onal people received travels was resented by them 
The front man for the attac Longhouse people has been ~azo~e, who until a year and a hved m San Jose, California was a sheet metal worker. o; visits back to the reservatio offered and accepted a po Economic Developer for t council, and was paid by the New York supposedly to enco dustry to come onto the rese thatjobs would be created fort living there. While he lived in Lazo re had tried to establish h' leader in the urban environ had failed . So when the state York, acting unwittingly in be progressives on the reservatio him a job, he was more than accept. 
Since that time Lazore many hours attacking the L leaders and members, through the state police, and even personal intimidation. He was bring industry onto the reserva the only plan that has develo one to create a chlorine dump Reynolds metals compan, rationale for the establishment place, which would make mu reservation unliveable, was that provide jobs for Indian tru_ck who would haul the chlorme dump. 
Russ Lazo re has been aided · tics by another Lazore, ~Larry), who is no relati?n, a Lieutenant Commander m t who is now living on the rese and an attorney and close fl Louis R. Bruce, the former missioner of Indian Affairs, A jasra who has met with various appa~ently on behalf of_ the B Indian Affairs in Washington tribal council. Both Larry La. Gajasra have been chummy Wl during the past two years, .• made many trips to Wash . confer with various BIA offic 
(See 
IND/AN VOICE 13 
,.We '1oftt want your Whiteman ways no more ... I/ 
Donations: 
sent to A-1.M. ~e9af Defense Bund • Community

~"K., N.MnrKet SanJose,CA.,% ~e-r. ~-8505'-3992.5' 
14 INDIAN VOICE 



INDiAN VOICE 15 
In the Mountains of Oriente 
There where the eastern land :ises on 

b. waves of their mountams, the . ag f the extensive greenness of the 



ne o d . 

. there . where the 1an scape 1s ten by the deep valleys, the inland kr finds beyond the beaten path of enchanted places group~o~ men and nof a facial charactenst1c that the inhabitants of Cuba had. They are bans of copper skin, with flashing of the manner of Asiatics, with a hair and small stature of body. can see such persons in the hidden of Yateras, Mayari, El Caney, Ila Pluma, Baracoa, and Guan­mo. It is certain that no one has ived of the total anthropolological ctenst1cs of these passed-by rigines,because in their faces one Spanish influences or the ancient rican tribes. It has been discussed if Cubans are in reality the descen­ts of those Yucatan Indians that the i h brought as slaves, after the con­t of the Empire of M ontezuma, a e of which no one has arrived at a . l_usion_. I have had the opportunity liymg with these ethnic groups during rao_u_s endowed geographic 
apedataons by the Speliological Society Cuba. 
P the Rio Toa, over the Turquino • or up the Rio Yara, or over the de Nioe I have always talked with 

them about their origin, I obtained a negative answer to the Yucatan or Mexican derivation, preserved by the oral tradition by the parents and grandparents, the knowledge of the remote Cuban origin as in case of many Indians that are dealt with on the borders of the Rio Yara that are called, Cucalambe', assured us they came from the aborigines of Jiguani, and of these we will deal with further on. 
A Little Bit of History 

Between the years of 1510-14, the con­quest of Cuba by the Spaniards was ac­complished. Against the stones and arrows of the aborigines, Velazquez brought three hundred soldiers, one­hundred Haitian porters, im­pressionable horses, metal armorment, and ferocious hunting dogs. They were opposed at last by Hatuey, the legen­dary and popular Taino who had come from Guajiba, a region of Hispanola, in order to lift up the spirit of the Cuban Indians. Hatuey, as we know him, paid his heroism in the bonfire of the Con­quistadores. 
Following the "pacification" of the Tainos in the extreme eastern part of Cuba, the Spanish founded "Our Lady of Annunciation of Baracoa," using for it the already existing aboriginal population, gathered in the excellent limits of the ba·y of this name, already in the shape of th~ formidable Yunque. 
Valazquez will make Bayamo equal to Baracoa as well. On the village site of the Indians was founded the Christain town that was present as attacked at night by numerous Indians, derived from the surrounding countryside, who had been wounded by one of the cap­tains, the cruel panfilo de Narvaez. By and by, the Spanish penetrated the lands of Cuba, going through it in a barbaric manner, and until then a peaceable area. Upon crossing the Rio Caonao, where the population of the village arose in rebellion. The iron troops killed three­tho us and aborigines. Father Betholamew de las Casas, the witness present, pointed out then; "This mas­sacre is known throughout all the province: none remained to let out the news, that left his town nor able to flee to the sea and to interfere on the islands of the southern coast." Thus, between those that succumbed before the unnerving gunsmith or the faithful sword, the island remained depopulated of aborigines, except those that took refuge in the many separated places. 
The conquest of Cuba ended with the invasion of the western provinces and the submission of the Indians of Guanahacabides, the poorest ones on the island. 
History records one marked resis­tance of the Cuban Indians following the final conquest in 1514. The maltreatment by the Spaniards of the Indians on the first farms or the gold 
(See page 36) 
rimed fro .
br J h 111 

Boh_em1a Magazine, Ha vana, Cuba. Trans­. 0 n D. Gillespie. 
16 IND/AN VOICE 
Reprinted f rom Talking Leaf Magazine with kind consent of author. 





~O\~~ \J;,S 
<i,'i;, ~ ~G~ 

~o , QS ~ 
\~ y 
To be Indian in Los Angeles is to live in legal limbo, unseen, unheard and almost without a country. Urban-area Indians are terminated from federal services upon leaving the reservation even though half of the total Indian population was lured to the cities by the federal government's infamous 'Relocation' craze. 
In time, we began to understand that 'relocation' was a nice word for displacement, d·eportation, alienation and finally termination of your existence as an Indian. The Bureau of Indiari Affairs closes its eyes to any problem an 'urban' In­dian might have. In effect, the BIA acts like the teacher who promotes her failing student to the next grade. Urban In­dians have been promoted and thus are no longer a problem to the BIA. 
And so the split between urban and reservation Indians arises, created not by Indians, but by our colonial managers, the BIA. The Urban Indian is cut off from his only political and legal source, his own tribal government. Fearful that the small amount of services rendered to reservation Indians will have to be shared with his urban brother, tribal leaders are forced into seeing urban Indians as a potential enemy. Not without some historical validity, the reservation Indian fears 
Relocation Indians quickly learn t truth of urban life. 
that urban tribal members will terminate res . treaty rights in favor of a percapita payment;a~on much voice. · giv 
Without federal or tribal protection, urban I d" fall victim to the state and local government. Vic~miana state and local governments have no ma d 
. d . . nate 
mechamsm to ea1 with Indians. Los Angeles h0 largest urban-Indian population in the U.S. yet th . sus keeps no vital social statistics for Indians as t~td
0
Blacks ~nd Chicanos. Indians are not numericaJ enou~h m ~ny one county to be statistically recordel must identify ourselves as 'other' on the census. 
Since not many Indians think of themselves as an even a simple census fails to reflect the urban Indian problems magnify from there. With no statistics on in · housing and population factors, the Indian successfully compete with the Blacks and Chicanos fora · of the mino.rity pie. Needless to say, the Indian does no his slice. 
Indian Housing in L.A. 

The problem with housing as with health and other Indian conditions is that no federal, state or local agency 
Silenced through fear of losing what little housing is avail­
able to them, urban Indians accept deplorable living c 
ditions. 


co e with the problem. Six months after you jction to 't p for example, the BIA drops your records iJltO the ~J;re is no further followup. It is as if after 
ity all your problems vanish. e ~idg to the city on BIA relocation assistance, 
'(bose not co to help them upon arrival. All Indians must no agencdlord and housing problems on an individual wit~ la~erefore, not a coincidence that areas with a high 
· It is, t tion are also those areas with the highest
IJldiaO popua1 . nd?rd h~~~1;aitling to discover is that local housing 
P.1_is m;ho are supposed to deal with low-income onues, blems actually discriminate against large
• g pro 

(llllilies-1Indian woman with 9 children, for example, was 
0

()Ile !ca dilapidated two bedroom house. When she 
. ina lh . h .. h
ed for help to severa ousmg aut ontles s e was...-! d wn, The reason they could not help her was that 
aimed ii° w;s too large. Housing authorities have only 3 or
._!:11 my homes and they could not legally move her out of 
IJlllilUroo h ldb ..
bedroom home because t ey wou e sanct10nmg twor-crowded living situation! 
ove · · d'l 'd d d d
any Indians live m 1ap1 ate. or ove~-crow e aparunents in which landlords are obv10usly neghgent. Bad floors, roofs, walls, plumbing a~d heating problems exist 
DI with roaches and other msects. Some have been du'OWD out of their apartment~ overn_ight for asking for _.u repairs. Fearful of bemg evicted, they accept 
· cable conditions. There are no accurate statistics available on Indian using problems. From records kept by the Indian Center's 
c1epartments, ho~ever, at least one-third of all cli:nts are f1cec1 with a housmg problem. And of course there 1s a vast ijority of Indians -lost out there somewhere -without acensus count to identify them. These are the people in 
aeecl who never request help. 
Health Care? Go To Phoenix! 
Indians in L.A. who check with their area Indian health 
IND/AN VOICE 17 
ponse -you are eligible for care at your nearest Indian Health Service Hospital which happens to be in Phoenix, Arizona! Mr. Benny Atencio received a letter from Dr. Bedingfeld, of the Albuquerque Service Unit, explaining 
.health services available to Pueblos in L.A. These services would apply to other tribes living in the city. The letter further stated that it was 'unfortunate' that only Indians on relocation or in BIA school, or who were temporarily visiting L.A. would be eligible for assistance. Indians not in those categories could not obtain IHS payment for health care in Los Angeles. 
In 1967, two Papagos living 15 miles off their reservation in Arizona, were "denied welfare assistance. They took their case to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and in June of 1972 they won. The court ruled that the BIA may not deny welfare to needy Indians just because they live outside reservations. Judge Kilkenny ruled against 'unauthorized residenq1 restrictions.' The Papago case (Ramon & Anita Ruiz) in Arizona, could lead to important results in terms of housing, health and other assistance being denied Indians in relocation cities such as Los Angeles. 
Unfortunately, nobody speaks for the urban Indian. The Los Angeles Indian Center, now that it has received federal funds, is prohibited from any political activity. NCAI has a lobby for reservation Indians but excludes urban Indian representation. The newly formed NAIC, the urban organization, is also federally funded and therefore politically restricted. 
With no federal assistance available, urban Indian housing and health problems will continue to be ignored. Until a political platform is built, Indians in L.A. and other cities will continue to live in legal limbo. We will continue to be estranged and suspected by tribal governments, unrecognized by the federal government and ignored by the state. 

SANDRA OSAWA 

18 IND/AN VOICE 
OTTAWA, Ont. -(AIPA) 
Of Canada's 22 million citizens, 

237,490 (1.1 %) are Indians and a~out 16,000 are Eskimos. Federal relat10n­ships with Canada's Native peopl~s are 
administered by the national Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. Following is the text ofthe opposition Progressive Conservative Party (PCP) proposed Indian policy: In few areas is Mr. Trudeau's notion of a "just society" more of a shambles and more ofa farce than in the plans and actions of his government concerning the Native peoples of Canada. In an ap­proach characterized by insensitivity and a basic indifference, his government has attempted to impose policies upon the Native peoples which do not meet their real needs or their legitimate as­pirations. This high-handed approach has undermined the confidence of the Native peoples in the intentions of the government and this lack of confidence has been confirmed by the repeated failures of the government both to engage in genuine consultations with the representatives of the Native peoples and to develop substantive programs to help them to overcome their many dif­ficulties. Poverty and cultural deprivation are the most conspicuous and genuine problems facing the Native peoples of Canada. The impact of white civilization has made it impossible for the Native com­munities to continue their traditional way of life, with its heavy reliance on hunting and fishing, without providing 
Do Canada's Native People better than those in the u. 
them with alternative means of 
livelihood. 

To take a job in industry, for exam­ple, an Indian or Inuit is usually forced to leave his family, his home, and his community for what is, for him, the hos­tile and foreign world of the city. White prejudice, so prevalent in many parts of Canada, makes this adjustment even more difficult. The Canadian government and the Canadian people either have largely ignored the problems of the Native peoples or have responded to them by demanding that the Native peoples give up their cultural identity and be totally absorbed into white society. 
The presentation of their cultural identity, and oftheir individual identity, in the highly competitive world of the white man presents an enormous challenge-both for the Native peoples and for the rest of Canadian society. To meet this challenge, the Native Peoples need and deserve the understanding and support of other Canadians, and the as­sistance of enlightened government policies. 
Any government policy which seeks to achieve healthy, productive, and economically secure lives for the Native peoples of Canada must respect their cultural heritage and traditions. The Canadian Indian or Inuit must be free to choose to live either in or away from his Native community without prejudicing the opportunities available to him to en­joy the standard ofliving and equality of life of other Canadians. In both the formulation and application of such a policy, the Native peoples must befully consultated and fully involved. 
T~e obligations of history met m a new approach to the of the Native peoples of Ca proach which is sensitive constructive and one which i; in an active partnership with peoples themselves. 

I. The Progressive Co Party abhors the failure ofthe government to live up to the o of over two hundred years of history in not recognizing a rights. We accept as a basic p urgent need to identify and fairly and systematically all based on these aboriginal rigb 
Similarly, all outstandingd· volving treaty rights and clai examined with care and sett 
In appropriate instances, we a legislative settlement of treaty and aboriginal claims. arrived at after close co between the Cabinet and Native 
2. Historically, the Native Canada have been held comm the Native bands, under 8 auspices. The Progressive Co Party is opposed to any attem government to fragment the imposing on the Native peop ,system of individual owne . land. To insist that the Natl can have equality with other only if their land is held ona~ ownership basis is !o . tradition of communal idenU such an important part.of and history of the Native Canada. 
such a policy disregards 

dd1t1on, . . . h. h

In a rnancial s1tuat10n m w 1c
1 

pre,e~~e peoples find themselves. If 
nY ~atl were broken up and owned r ·e_r lfvidual basis, a real danger 
10 
anY Native peoples would 
. that rn . 1 d 

ossession of their an as a n lo ef Ptax mortgage d •
or e1au 1ts, 
O

ult fault of their own. The un­hr ugh no resulrs of experimental ,,unare ll'irh the reserves of the 
'~111 
ative peoples which were 
,,can
d bJ' rhe government of the 

nJucre . . 
rares should not be ignored tn

L/llft'lI 
~~W d .
Wa must be foun to assist the . peoples to make their lands 
(I\C . 
n mically prod u~t1ve to the [ullest which is possible and desirable. 
t nt .
Th Progressive Conservative Party r the establishment of feasibility ·. in every case to be planned, 
ffed and conducted in collaboration ative peoples, of the economic t ntial of these lands. Where it is to be needed, a Progressive on er ative government will make lopment capital available to be used 10 av that the Native peoples and their 

de~ consider appropriate. . The tandards of housing and of Ith care in most Indian and Inuit 
mmunities of Canada is a national race. Presently the mortality rate of ian and Inuit children is two and a If time higher than the rate fo r all h r Canadian children; for young In­nand Inuit adults, it is five times that other Canadian adults. Lack of even 
minimum standards of health care m :ated by poor housing, has created ppalh ng conditions which must be 
o rcome at once. ~e provi ions of immediate financial 
1 tance and expert advice for the 01
~~ of Indian and Inuit com-
mun1t · 
. ie t? improve housing and health 
1 ah h · ·

1_g pnonty of the Progressive rvat1ve Party policy. 
· Because of poor planning insen­
pr . , 

1: . ogrammmg, and severely 
umned opp t • . 

. or unities, the standard of 
-1 b

ive avai a le to most of the · peoples of Canada is 
mma ble N·
and. z~ety-four percent ofthe Inuu children drop out of 'ed e ore they reach Grade 12 and 
era! g . ,

mpt· overnment 1s apparently 
mg to ph . 
on f ase out its program of
0 th0 
~ se Indian a nd Inuit
0

racefuwl . r~ach university. This 
Ituat · · 

ult of the im io~ ~s m large part the 0f position on the Native 
an ed · 

1 n to th . ucation system which is eir culture, and which often 
(Over) 

IND/AN VOICE 19 



101n our ••• 





$25.00 
CLUB 
. 
If you 'd like to help us meet our production c_osts join our $25.00 Club. Membership en­titles you to personal satisfaction in knowing you 've helped-that is the Indian way. 

. 
Our history is colorful and vibrant and we want to share our heritage with the rest of the world. We believe this work is important; Indians need to be heard today as never before. 

. 
The directors, management and staff of In­dian Voice are all Indians. We're a non-profit organization dedicated to presenting the true Indian viewpoint in America. 

. 
Support us if you can. Ask your friends to become members. Our voice will be a little louder. 






20 IND /AN VO/L;E 
does little more than cultivate 
alienation, frustration, and resentment. 
The Progressive Conservative Party strongly supports the establishment ofa special task force, under the direction of qualified Native peoples, which would develop teaching programs, curricula, textbooks, and teaching aids which are relevant to the needs and sensitive to the way of life of the Native peoples. 
The Progressive Conservative Party also supports the establishment wherever appropriate of school boards composed entirely or in large part ofthe Native peoples themselves, which would have the power to hire teachers, design curricula, and make similar decisions. Such school boards would, for the first time, involve the Native peoples in their own education programs and would greatly contribute to making their education more relevant and attractive to them. 
6. 
Administrative and legal reforms, and changes in official attitudes, are needed to insure that Native people ... receive justice under the law. 

7. 
The plight of the growing number of Indians in the cities needs study and attention. A Progressive Conservative government would establish an action task force, in consultation with Native representatives and including Native people, to determine the government's responsibilities and to see what can be done to insure better housing, job placement, vocational training, and conditions for living of these people. 

8. 
The rights and the problems of non-status Indians need immediate, sympathetic and extensive con­sideration. 

9. 
Policies must be developed in con­sultation and partnership with the Es­kimos, to insure the protection of Inuit rights and culture and interests as the north is opened up. 

10. 
The Progressive Conservative Party would give full recognition and extended support to the Native organizations of Canada. 

11. 
Government programs of as­sistance to the Native peoples ofCanada have been for the most part fragmented and uncoordinated, with a significant degree of duplication and waste. Moreover, there have seldom been ade­quate consultation and collaboration with the Native peoples themselves in regard to these programs. The Progres­sive Conservative Party favors coordination of the efforts of all governments and all departments of government to maximize the effec­tiveness of such programs. 


}tit{ 




Oh Brother!! 


We are a II brothers, whether we are from 
Alaska or Florida, Ontario or California I 
Mex ico City or the Arctic Islands; 
whether we are Eskimo, Seminole, 
Iroquois, Chicano or Metis; 
whether we are rural or ur ban, 
rich or poor, modern or traditional. 
Lei's gel lo know our brothers better. 
Our way is by subscribing to Native publications acr
oss the continent Native publications such as The Native published by the Alberta Native Communications Society. Native People is Canada's first Native WEEKLY newspaper , and one of the best. It covers the Native scene in detail, at all level with compassion and understanding, but with compelling honesty. 
The Native People 
c/o Alberta Native Communications Society 11427 -Jasper Avenue Edmonton 11, Alberta Canada 
I have enclosed $5.00 in . cash 
. money order 
. cheque for one year 's subscription to The Native People, newspaper 
NAME : ....................... .. ...... ........... .................... ... . ADDRESS: 
Zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . City or Town PHONE: .... .. ....................................................... . If applicable: 
······ 
Organization, Business or Government Department ···· ·· · ····· 
.... .. ...... ............. .... ...... .... ...Title 


IND/AN VOICE 21 


A Menominee woman tells of her termination experience. 
rce lonely tipis once stood u~der tars and stripes of the American a two-acre back lot of the
0 
: Indian Hospital. They had%dCarol Warington and her five ren on Federal pro~erty. rol Warington 1s a yo~ng 

minee Indian mother whose tnbe terminated by the Federal · lature a few years ago. So far as the ral government is concerned, Carol no longer an Indian: a native 
rican. 
Th encampment was constructed at I Street and East Indian School d on November 10, 1972. It was in peaceful protest of the U.S. mment's flagrant disregard for In­n rights. Carol lived there because 
had no other place to go. I poke at length with Mrs. rington inside her tipi which stood in 
middle of a large vacant dirt lot rd red on the east by the Medical nt r, on the north by a park and on 
outh by an irrigation canal. 
. num~er of Indians, attracted by the and m support of Carol's plight, h red around. They sat politely and n d made short comments and d occasional _questions. Several mall campfires around which played drums, while their children mpered about singing and dancing. hen I aske~ Mrs. Warington her 
he replied, "We're sitting here 

u we're · ' 
. getting to the government ir ntted States. We're a sore spot in 
e e Just b · · 

in · Y s1ttmg here we are 0 1g people aware of the Indian's 
ern. My .
I · n h people, the Menommee i cd S ave been terminated by the t e e~a:es government since 1954. I n ho . ake my children to that In­
11

nixsi~. over there or to the n ian School because we're 
not classified as Indians. I'd like to know what the BIA thinks we are". 
"How  did  this  termination  come  
about?  
"The  Menominee  were  self­ 

determined most ofthe time. Our people had a saw mill and heavy timberland. Once we were one of the richest tribes in the United States. But then Senator Watkins of Utah came up with his thing, " Ifyou don't get those lazy Indians off their butts, they're never going to do anything for themselves." His comment was not justified. 
Many of us had been hard workers and we did very well for ourselves. But Senator Watkins really pushed for termination. Why, we even had our own Reservation Hospital. They had ac­tually remodeled the hospitaljust before termination, but it became nothing but a welfare office. I know a woman that hitch-hiked up there with her baby who had double pneumonia. The child died because there was no longer any hos­pital facilities available . 
"In the main we can thank Senator Watkins for our termination. Who he fronted for, I don't know. He came up to the reservation and talked to my people. He brainwashed a lot of them with his lies and they voted for termination. Many Menominee avoided voting just to keep out of trouble. Out of 3,200 enrolled tribal members, only 126 voted. Of these 126, 96 were for termination. Those 96 people that voted didn't know what they were voting for. ... 
I asked her if she ever received any money for her termination? 
"I never received no money for termination, except what I had coming. Our Great grandfathers had sued the government for the timber that was taken from our land. That is the only money I received and it was damn little." 
"If the land is ever given hack to the tribe, would you go back there to live?" 
"I don't know. I've been fighting to reinstate my tribe, but I want to fight for all Indian people. My tribe has been terminated and the same thing can happen to any other tribe that doesn't speak out for its rights." 
''What about your children? Can they receive health care?" 
"No. None of us can, or our children or our children's-children. We no longer exist as Indians." 
Is your husband able to provide for you and the children?" 
"I don't know where he is right now. He is a beautiful person, only he got lost along the way. I think he got tired of being disgraced in front of his children by being called a no-good Redskin, and left. My children love their father very much." . 
I thanked Carol for the interview, and watched Camp Cohesion grow. During the months of November and December, Indians from local Arizona reservations put up their tipis around her. On weekends over 400 crowded into the tiny area. Among them were Havasupai, Walapai, Apache, Navajo and several Dakotah. 
They made plans for a housing task force for Indians in greater Phoenix which was to have been supervised by Sid Bean, a Dakotah man. The Lutheran Church donated $300, the Phoenix Indian Center gave $100 and LEAP, a minority organization, con­tributed $100. This was used for housing, food, and blankets while negotiations for funding were carried on with the City of Phoenix. 
Camp Cohesion members also planned an inter-tribal school so they could learn from each-other and 
(Over) 
22 IND/AN VOICE 


Camp Cohesion 
exchange ideas. The two acres, directly behind the hospital, were to be used for these purposes. 
Later that month, I talked to Frank Two Bull, who was the leader of the camp during its last days of existence. He stated that at one time, a total of 24 different tribes were represented at Camp Cohesion. Two Bull is one of the most highly decorated Indian veterans of the Vistnam war and is an active member of AIM. 
Ironically, Camp Cohesion was also terminated. Complaints were raised by hospital officials that there was too much noise. Desks had been removed from a storage building on the site and were used as storage tables for food. As a result of these actions, the FBI declared Marshall law for trespassing on Federal property and forced all the people out of Camp Cohesion. Bulldozers ruthlessly crushed, and then pushed the tipis into a deep hole and buried them. Then the area was fenced with barbed wire and a NO TRES­p ASSING sign was erected. The begin­ning of a dream came to an end. 
Most of the Indians disbanded, but for lack of housing a few were bussed to the Phoenix Salvation Army. They were offered housing for a few days but found curfew requirements unreasonable· and declined. They slept outside in 30 degree weather. 
Native Americans remember termination was started during Eisenhower's administration in 1952 by an Act of Congress. Out of 120 tribes 70 have been terminated in a 20-year period. In 1972, Congress repealed the termination act, but they have yet to reinstate those terminated. I asked Carol about the repeal. 
"Don't you believe them. The same thing can happen to any tribe or any reservation if you don't stand up and speak out for your Indian rights. The government always does what it wants. No Indians are free of the white man's continuing persecution. I never wanted to be terminated anyway. I'm an Indian no matter what the Government says." 
Someday the Government may reinstate the Menominees to full Indian status. But whether or not this happens, Carol Warington and many hundreds of others like her will continue their fight for recognition. 

NYLES RYAN 
~ 

BACK 
bring your INDIA


ISSUES 
N wyoucan d 

o ' \ tion up-to ate or 
VOICE Jt ~na\ back copies f~r 
order a_ ,t, b cornp\eting th1
in case 


our friends Yb\ k A\\ copi 
Y rder an · h·\
handy o ·\ b\e on\y w ,
you 
75¢ each ava, a supp\ies \ast. 


missed us 

..BACK ,ssu~~-
.?.~~~~~~~~-~-~:5' 
• • • • • • • • • • No. of Pr • • • • • • • • • • • • • 754 '71 Month CopiesNo of x . of Issue 
'71 Month · . Pnce
Copies

of Issue July/Aug. -­-­March• ---Sept./oc:t. ----­
April ---Nov. ----­
May ---Dec./Jan. ------­
-
-Total Total price 1971 was the first edition Issues --• • • • • • 
• February ' • • •••• •
........ 

••••••••••••• kO 
• • • • • • • • \osinS a cheC 
Please mail to: I am enc order 0 N VOICE P.O. sox 2033, rnoneY INDIA California 95050. Santa Clara, 


IND/AN VOICE 23 




·•:•:-::.·.·:.·:.·:: .........................; ....................-..................................................... . 
.........·.·.·.·.·.·.·.•:•······································································································································································································ 
......•••.·.·.·.·...·.....·...·.·.·.·.·.·...·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.....·.·...·.....·...·...·.·.....·.·.·. ·. ·.·.·.·.·.·...·.·...·.·.·.·.·.·...•.·.·.•.·.·.·.·.........·...·.....·.·.............·.·...·.·...·.·.· .· ...·.·.·...·.·. 
. ::.·:•···············:•······································································································································································································ 
.........·.·...·.·...·.·.·.......·-.·.·.·.·.·.•.·.· .· .·.......·.·.·.·.•.·.•.·.•.·.·.·...~.·.•.•.·.·.•.·.·.·.•.·.·.·...·...·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·...·.·.·.....·.·.........·.·.....·...........·...........·.....·.·.·.·. 
24 INDIAN VOICE 

About tlte Artist . 

Joe Waano-Gano is a_ member OJ tlie Clier • of the foremost lnd1ct11 artists of our ti,n ok!': r,,i,, boyhood he_ has traveled and li11ed amo,/'s. f-ro>tt / West, studying their tribal history k 7111 !' l11d"' and dances, -recording their symbo~ etc 1111JI tht',r this rich store of knowledge has c ogy '"1d folltl, paintings of American Indians since 0; 1 e ~0111 <' of 
1
Catlin first began to record t/1(' life a / 111 1j1g'""• R 
11 

Waano-Gano, is best known for his ::t•>fr/ actua lly prod11ces out of doors at night 111''1<' portraits which, to a re111<1rkable degr ' ,u,d /o, austerity of the Indian and capture his ,:e, 1'<'1'"''"' Waano-Gano is aff'.liated with many ar:':t,;s,,..,I the American Institute of Fine Art as i I/ s, 1 Artists' Professional League. He is lisre~e "'. n American Art,' 'lnduins of Today ,' ' Jt 'lio' ,°.; II/ and his accornplishrne11ts in the field of ~r 
1 10 u 
activities on beh~lf of the American hidian'. ~~,d 11 many othefublicatwns. f' '" Designer o the Indian Council Fire Ac/ 
pres~nted eacli year to the Indian whose '(""
"1 

received 11cttional or international recognitio~c !h 1 
1

held over 89 one-ma11 shows, lias painted 17' l<IQ . d -1t111r11l,
over 94 separate pri:es an awards. His puinti1Jg 1ia 
fine gulleries, und are held by important col/ecro,s tlie country. 1 
Moonlight Madonna 

A 'nocturne,' the seven th painting of the 
subject and winner of the International 
Madonna Art Fcslit•a/ popular award. 
© Joe Waano-Gano 1972 


INDIAN VOICE 25

feWAA~~ a -liA~~ a 




Cherokee Indian Artist 


Ceremonial Gathering 
. .. a typical 'ge t together' by Plains Indians. Decked out in their finest costumes they are making ready for a 'Song and Dance Festival' . .A time to renew old acquaint­enances and to meet new friends. 
26 IND/AN VOICE 
Rolland Longboat floor-boarded the gas pedal but instead ofaccelerating, his car coughed and sputtered, back-fired and stopped. Rolland sighed, looped a buckskin medicine pouch over his shoulder and stuffed a pair ofpliers into a hip pocket of his levis. Almost nine­teen, he pondered the strange circum­stances that drew him from New York to his grandfather's deathbed and now mysteriously pulled him northward on this errand. 
He got out, pushed the car into the ditch and set fire to it. Cremating auto­mobiles made them disintegrate faster and it ha9 become necessary to destroy all but a few when they failed. Twenty yards ahead, he noted a perfectly pre­served four-door sedan. Leaving some autos intact assured emergency spare­parts and sleeping quarters during the approaching cold moons of winter. 
Using the morning sun for orienta­tion, he decided cross-country was the quickest route to the Longhouse. He expected the council to be in progress when he arrived but the tobacco in his medicine pouch was worthy of inter­ruption. He broke into a trot, the fringe of his buckskin vest tickling his naked chest in cadence with his stride. 
When he reached the top of a hill, he saw an old schoolbus emerging from a rooster tail of dust. 'SOUL BROTH­ERS' was stenciled in purple beneath its black side-stripe and he increased his stride hoping to hitch a ride. A wire fence blocked his path and he ques­tioned its existence. Listening to the wire sing its protest, he snipped the fence down with his pliers and smiled. The white man had tried to imprison the land but that was all over now. Owning a tree or a blade of grass was about as sensible as owning the clouds or the sun. 
He waved an arm and heard the bus hiss to a stop. From the darkness in­side, three rifle barrels and a pistol 
A short story based on an Iroquois prophecy. 
pointed at him. Surely they don't think 
I'm a white man, Rolland thought. He 
raised his arms and held the medicine 
bag above his head. "I need a lift to the 
::ouncil," he shouted. "I'm peaceful." 
A black man stepped from the bus jressed in an olive shirt and shorts. A thick gold ring pierced an earlobe; a hol­~tered pistol hung precariously from his hip. Most of his face was covered by the huge lenses of his solarglasses. Exhaling a deep breath from the side of his mouth, he waved Rolland forward. "What's your name?" he asked. Simul­taneously, the rifle barrels pulled back inside the bus. 
"Rolland Longboat." "Mine's Captain Madison, Jefferson Madison. Do you speak any Indian?" "Seneca," Rolland said. "I know some Seneca." "This council you speak of, man. Where's it at?" 
Rolland hesitated. His grandfather told of a prophesy where people of all origins would gather in peace at a great council hosted by the Iroquois, but was this what he meant? Could grandfather's telling be realized so soon after his death? "Sour Springs Longhouse," Rolland said. "It's about fifteen miles from here -back in the bush." He re­membered his grandfather's vague in­structions that he'd be directed to it by an unmistakable sign. 
"Do you know the way?" the driver shouted, craning his neck from inside. "I'm not sure," Rolland answered, "but I think I can find it." 
Captain Madison hooked his arm around Rolland's shoulder and ushered him inside. "Looks like we're going to the same place, my man," he said. "Kin­div direct mv driver to the spot." 
Rolland saw four similarly attired men standing in the aisle. When they took up positions at the windows, he noted a white, clenched-fist insignia monogrammed to their b 
bands. The same emblem 
atop their black berets. 
gasoline smells pinched at 
and he saw captured U.S. A 

fuel stacked up inside. Most of 
were removed and wooden 
t:aining guns and ammunition 

to the base of the windows. 
opened box, two hand gre at him beneath strands of s 

The bus lurched ahead Rolland to grip a verticle bar driver's seat. "How goes the ~1sked. 
Laughter broke out all ar "Are you kidding, man?" voice raised, a wide smile golden tooth. "Where you In a vacuum?'' 
"No," Rolland said. "I've grandfather's for the past paring him for his last journey. pletely lost track of the war." 
"Ain't cha got no radio?" 
"No. Its energizer burned time ago. There's no electri my grandfather lived." 
"Right," the driver laug nobody got any 'lectricity ­the first thing to go. You're se cha man. You really don't k happenin' do you?" 
Rolland shook his heacf. thing I know is that the figh out shortly after I left New y, an apprentice -" 
"What's in the bag?" Madison asked. "Tobacco." 

One of the men grabbed ~ inspected it. "He's right. Ain't but tobacco inside," the man sing the pouch to Captain "See? I ain't kiddin' ya man, n tobacco." 
Captain Madison's eyes toward Rolland. "Sorry to be 
IND/AN VOICE 27 
., ., ,I 

-.­
I • 

28 IND/AN VOICE 
he said, handing the pouch back to him, 
"but these days it's gettin' so's you can't 
trust no-body." 
Bounding along the winding gravel 

road, the bus swayed like a rampant 
subway train. Rolland strained his eyes 
between two bullet holes in the wind­
shield searching for a directional mar­
ker. He knew one existed just as his 
grandfather promised, but would he be 
capable of its detection? 
Pine trees covered the hills and beads 

of sweat dropped from the driver's fore­
head with each double-clutching and 
manipulation of the gear lever. Old, 
mechanical vehicles had been resur­
rected because they were easily repair­
able; parts could be interchanged. 
Modern solar-energy vehicles con­
tained micro-electrical circuitry and 
electroriic factories had been primary 
targets of the revolution. Thus, the ene­
my had become trapped by his own 
technology. 
"Are you a medicine man?" Captain Madison asked. "No," Rolland shook his head. "Why do you ask?" "The tobacco in that pouch contains a spiritual message, don't it?" 
"I don't know. My grandfather asked me to deliver it to the council. It was his last request." 
"There'll be medicine men at the council, right man?" the driver asked. "There's always medicine men at the council," Rolland said. 
Gaining speed to negotiate a steep hill, the engine's drone began stoking Rolland's dubious throughts. He had been unsuccessful in his search for a marker and felt the dismay of his hosts. Perhaps they think I'm bluffing, he thought. But what are they doing here? They know Indians are neutral; we've had our battle with the white man. Maybe they're trying to recruit scouts? "How did you find out about the coun­cil?" he asked. 
Captain Madison turned and Rolland glimpsed his own reflection in the solar­glasses: After a long moment, a smile pushed out the Captain's cheeks. "You just told us back there, man," he said softly. "But don't worry none, our mis­sion is one of explanation." 
"Explanation? What kind of ex­planation?" "Tell him, Captain," the bus driver said. "You tell it best." 
Captain Madison reached into his breast pocket, retrieved a package of Wrigley's and offered it to Rolland. "Have one of these," he said. 
"Thank you." 
He told Rolland they were an ad­vance party sent north to reconoiter 

enemy radio intercepts that were too 
phenominal to believe. "We came 
motorin' through the Alleghany Moun­
tains," he said. "It was very hot so we 
stopped beside a river to fill our can­
teens. Strangely, the usual water pollu­
tants were non-existant and I im­
mediately became suspic10us. Up­
stream, the men found several fish 
floating along with their bellies turned 
up. Usually, dead fish are stiff, but these 
carcasses were pliable as rubber. It was 
like they'd just been cooked! Man, we 
didn't touch that water even though our 
tests indicated it was pure." 
"Tell him 'bout the bugs, Cap'n." 

Rolland snapped his chewing gum. 
"Bugs?" he asked. 

"We entered a strange wooded area 
'bout a mile from the stream. All the 
trees were bare but there wasn't a single 
leaf on the ground. In fact, there wasn't 
any grass! It looked like the whole area 
was contaminated! We broke off several 
branches to check the trees and found 
they were still alive. Some of my intelli­
gence reports said that the enemy suf­
fered attacks from insects so I decided to 
make camp. I was sure the place had 
been disinfected 'cause of the 
sulphurous stench that hung in the air 
" 

"Man, that whole woods smelled like 
a hospital," the driver interrupted. 

"We were taking specimens of soil for 
laboratory analysis when suddenly the 
ground burst alive with thousands of 
beetles! They just seemed to squeeze-up 
from nowhere! I thought we'd dis­
turbed a hibernation of some kind. 
Man, we ran back to the bus and got the 
hell out of there as fast as we could!" 
"You probably think we're crazy, 
hug?" the bus driver said. "But it's the 
truth, sure as I'm sittin' here drivin' this 
bus!" 

Captain Madison's tone became anxious. "Have you heard of anything like this happenin' before?" he asked. 
"No," Rolland said. "But the medicine men at the council are knowl­edgeable in such things. I'm sure they'll be able to help you find an explanation." 
Approaching the summit of its long climb, the bus lugged onward in low gear. Rolland saw a stand of pine trees on the slope ofan adjacent hill, their tips all pointed skyward like cathedral spires. Behind them, a single cedar jutted out at an uncommon angle. To Rolland's eyes it suggested a turn. "Turn left here," he pointed. "Follow those tire tracks through the fields." 
For five miles the bus twisted and groaned through the bush. Twice the men got out while the dr· 


1ver
down steep embankrn 
f. . ents 
men illed their canteen . · 

SWtth

water, deer tracks wer . C 
. e sigh
stream bed. Silver flash 
. es 
water gave evidence of fish 

slaps sent partridge Whi a. 
cover.. A crow laughed at th 
safe distance and a wood 
. . Pee 
out messages m his own .

Pnva
It was . almost noon when over a nse and entered a vei Cupped between the hills R long birch bark house unde:ab tree. The elm was so ma . 
h. . ss1 
everyt mg m a different 

~everal ?Id cars with intern~ 
tlon engmes were spaced bet 

num_bers of rusting trailers. . 
of different sizes and shapes d 
fertile landscape. Symmetrical 
of. ~orthern Cheyenne and 
ongm colorfully decorated two 
but this gathering was small; 
expected thousands. 

When they drove up and beside the longhouse, a white flowing red hair sat atop a meditating. The driver pulled from a scabbard beside his fixed the man in its sights. 
Rolland tapped him on the 

"This is a sacred area," he "There can be no killing. If that here, he is a good man." 
"Oh man," the driver grim pain. "The only good white dead white man." 

Rolland suggested that t Brothers leave their weapons · bus to create a good impressio 
When they entered the lo whispers · accompanied their across the pine planks of the There were no windows and a number of kerosene lamps, cas odor than light, added mys solemn faces confronting the men attired in buckskin dresses from an opposite door on the of the building, their dark eyes with curiosity. 
Six Royaner's sat beside a I on the west side. Turkey featbe atop their gustoweh's with each­tive head movement. Wampum before them, their indigo colo in sharp contrast to the W which recorded their messages. easy to find seating; this Longb been built to accommodate man! Certainly there were more weh (original people) than where were they? 

IND/AN VOICE 29 
...•. ················••;s;••;s;••~••;s;••a:••;s;••;s;••;s;••~••;s;a•;s;••;s;••a:..·•·••a;,•·······················..i··················=-=·····..·····=-=····················..············ 
•:t. =t:.,:;:..~..~..~··········..·•·..·•·..·•·..·•·••·•·••·•·..···"·············..·•·..·•·••·•·..~······•Y.••Y.••~..Y.......Y.••Y...~.......Y. •• ~.......Y.••~••Y.._"Y.••~..Y...~ 



~~~--=-------------= =-------~--~------~ 
••,,:r....•. 

ed forward and the JloUand . steppsilence. "I'm Rolland fell into . ,, h .d 
rn fthe Seneca Nation, e sa1 
• ..naboat O · "and I've come to 
a,vo-c, nant v01ce, reso. uch for my grandfather. It 

· r this po • 
. t wish that I present 1t to you.

his las ,,tains tobacco. . . 
conOnondaga chief, his express10n­n1: 1i·ned with furrows of age,
,ace · h

ed: ..Who are those that are wit 

,,. .
They seek your counsel regarding a they witnessed. They asked me ted~n answer but I'm unworthy -I
fi1n ,,
ldn't help th~m. Captain Madison stepped. forward. ff'.. he said. He cleared his throat, -~ his brow and remove? his beret. rm Captain Jefferson _Mad1s,?n, Afro­
n Com, Third Regiment. He re­ted his story and the atmosphere me filled with noddings and mum-ling . "Do any of you know what used the bugs to attack us?" he asked. e'd 'preciate it if somebody advised how to prevent this from happenin' in." 
Theold Royaner stood up, a beaded tte bouncing against his moosehide t when he straightened. "We all know what you speak," he said, his voice aacking with wisdom. "The Great Peacemaker said the battle which now gcs would become so violent that the mountains would waver. Rivers would boil causing fish to turn over on their bellies. There would be no leaves on the trees in those areas, no grass, and beetles 
ould squeeze up from the ground to at-k the combatants. ow you tell us 
~u have seen these things come true th your own eyes." Captain Madison nodded his head. 
1: the men seen it," he said. 
cannot tell you how to prevent this Phenomenon from recurring " the old
C . , 
. . °ntmued. "I can only tell you that 
11
G:bahappen until the fighting is ended. hat t~ to yo_ur people and tell them ave said. Let it be known that uncffju~elcomhe to s_it beside_ us in 
lco as t e white man 1s also me. Do not be disgraced if none 
come. Your path has been decided by the Great Spirit and there is little you can do to alter it. Take as many pro­visions necessary for your return jour­ney, but do not kill any man while you are among us." 
When the old man sat down, men's gutteral voices and women's higher tones generated excited crescendos of Iroquois dialect. Several war whoops split the air and one of the clan mothers began a chant which gradually received everybody's attention. Rolland began talking to one of the elders who was a Hageotah (story teller) and became so entranced that he didn't notice Captain Madison and his men leave the longhouse. 
Later, when he went outside, he found the Soul Brothers busily packing provi­sions aboard the bus. One of the men told him women brought bark plates heaped with venison and wooden bowls teeming with corn soup. They had finished eating and were filling gasoline cans with pails of water. Several children wearing baggy T-shirts and over sized shorts watched them. Rolland stepped inside the bus to find Captain Madison. 
"Hey, here's my man," Captain 
Madison said. He pushed a stick ofgum 
from its package toward Rolland. "Take 
one," he gestured. 
"No, thanks," Rolland said. "You 
guys leaving tonight?" 
"Have to. My driver says he can make it back to the highway before dark and we're already two days behind sche­dule. My CO gets cross as a goose when you're late; gets real mean if he thinks he's been had. I don't b'lieve he's going to buy our story -it ain't scientific enough for him -but hell, it's the truth. A man just can't do better than that." 
"Tell him to come here for verifica­
tion if he doesn't believe you." 
Captain Madison chomped happily on his gum. "Well, it's like this," he said. "Me and the CO got sort of an ex­change plan gain' with chicks, dig? An' it so happens I've got one he just can't do without. If necessary, I'll just have to re­mind him 'bout that little tact and then things'll cool some. What about you? You gonna ride back with us?" 
"No," Rolland said. "They're going to use grandfather's tobacco tomorrow for the sacred tobacco burning ceremony. My people need much spiritual guid­ance during this period of reawaken­ing." Rolland turned toward the driver. "Will you be able to find your way out okay?" 
"No trouble, baby. I always finds my way back from where I been." 
'Rolland shook hands with the men and stepped outside. He heard the starter crank the engine to life and wat­ched the bus until it became a yellow blur among the cedars. He wondered if any of them would return and guessed they wouldn't. Their destiny was pre­ordained by a power they knew nothing about. It occurred to him their mes­sage, not his grandfather's tobacco pouch, was the real reason for his mysterious pilgrimage to this camp. 
And now Rolland recognized his future. He felt honored to have been selected to perform his small chore in the Great Peacemaker's phophecy. Hageotah told him Maker-Of-All­Things hadn't turned his back on the Hoden-ausahne, the people of birch­bark lodges. Instead, the past six hun­dred years had been a test to humble them. This was required to make them leaders on the path to brotherhood. It was the Ongwehohi-1.'eh's job to take care of Earth-Mother and soon they'd again be ·entrusted with the greatest of all duties. 
An instinctive awareness gripped Rolland and he felt fulfillment. He'd enter the pine forest just like the An­cients and weave himself back into the land's texture. When he was worthy, by being pure in nature, he'd wait beside the longhouse with his people for the light that would come from the East. 
-RICHARD G. GREEN 


30 IND/AN VOICE 
Top: Russell Means Lej1: Dennis Banks Above: Carter Camp 


IND/AN VOICE 31 
quarters. About 150 warriors had been transported from
d "The Government has now reached an 
their bunkers to attend.
' " 

De~nis Banks began, "Until the people who asked us to
~rne~tttwe have," came the instantaneous reply. 
come _m here ask us to leave we're not leaving. We think
e ting then continued focussing on the pos­
last night's shooting was a direct attempt to assassinate
rne; having proper representation on the Grand 
Russ Means by the F.8.1. Instead, they hit two other 
JurY· • not dealing with a bunch of uneducated In­
•Theh~ r~irne" Ramon Rubideaux, negotiator and at­.a:.ns t is ' d d ' d · k · 
u... f AIM said. "An we on t rm either." 
torneY ;rad Warrior of the Onondaga Nation expressed 1h~etee support of th~ Onondaga Council: He said CO~fip t·on of this was directed to all other nat10ns of the 

aott ica i
uois Confederacy. 

lroQ rt r camp read a telegram that urged, "Don't Ca Jer." It was signed 'The Texas Armadillo Tribe.';:n is the Armadillo Tribe?" he asked. Somebody ad­vised: "They must be hippy people.'' The meeting con­
tinued. 
11:ss AM h' h h db .
walked to the house w 1c a een hastily converted
1

into a hospital to acco_mmod~te the two wounded men. Mylo Goings was shot m the nght leg: Webster Poor Bear through the left hand. They were in high spirits and Mylo showed me the bullet which was wrapped in gauze. Ironically, it had gone into his thigh and lodged just above the knee. Crow Dog had squeezed it out about two inches bove the kneecap. Many joking remarks were directed toward his 'wounded knee'. "They opened fire," he said. 
•They had snipers. I started to run for cover and the bullet hit me and knocked me down." 
A radio broadcast announced "Government officials have reached an agreement in principal with AIM at­torneys. This was released by the Justice Department 
·multaneously in Washington and Wounded Knee.'' 
11:15 AM 
Crow Dog, the medicine man who attended the two men arrived. He dressed their wounds and conducted a medicine ceremony, burning sweetgrass and uttering 
prayers in Lakotah. 
12:00 PM 
1! was a dull, windy day. We decided on a picture­takmg tour of the bunkers and left Wounded Knee. Beneath the first bunker we visited, we noted several bulle! holes in a mobile home which the sentries used as lcep1~g quarters. About one mile distant, commanding ~o hilltops a quarter mile apart, silhouettes of two _PCs were visible. We asked a Cherokee warrior what 
hIS thoughts were. 
"~eath is something that has to happen," he said. "If ~=t~e. prepare~ for it, it's not a shock. As you know, to ha is som~thmg you can never run away from-it has 
d . ppen. Its better for me here, dying for a cause than ~ng from old age. People die everyday for ridiculous me~~,ns. You know, we'll all be dying for a reason and to for." s a reason at least. A reason that I would like to die 
We visited b ·d h .
rca a n get at had been blown-up for security 
sons the pr . . h ,
rtport th ,, evious mg t. We heard Paul Harvey's 
We al at an agreement in principal had been reached." 
Prtvi;o n~ted ~hat twenty Indians had been arrested the 
us night m Rapid City. 

l:30 PM 
A.troopm . 

10()• edifice eetmg was held inside the trading post, a 60' x 

across the road from AIM Command Head­Oglala's. They attempted to hit all four that were on the squad. 
We're not leaving this reservation until Wilson is either arrested or thrown into an insane asylum. We can never leave until S~anley Lyman and the BIA beaurocracy have been extermmated. When Fool's Crow, Pedro Bisonette and Vern Long say, 'AIM you can leave,' only then will we leave. 
"There will not be any Justice Department or FBI man 
telling us to leave or promising to bus us 150 miles from 
her~ a~d dump us. The war is still on. As long as they 
do~ t fire on us we won't fire on them. They should turn 
their weapons on those ranchers if they really want to 
protect the people in here. 
"We know they made their announcement in the press 
today to keep our brothers from coming here this 
weekend. All t_hose that tried to leave last night are in jail. 
They keep saymg they won't arrest us but they arrested 14 
of our people last night." 
. We ~aited a~ hour and a half to use the one telephone 
lme which was mstalled and monitored by the FBI. Some 
of the warriors began singing and chanting. I noticed the 
same drum that had accompanied the Trail of Broken 
Treaties caravan to Washington four months earlier. 
5:30 PM 

I learned that Wounded Knee continued to be sealed 
off by the government. Press cards were not being 
honored and only attorneys on a priority list were 
permitted entry. I talked to Carter Camp about con­
ditions on the reservation. 
"T~e ranchers have 12 million dollars in revenue a year 
on this reservation," he said. "Generally, they own their 
own property. They find an Indian that's judged 
competent, which means he can sell his property. The 
Department of the Interior is supposed to make the best 
deal it can for Indian people. They hold all the land in 
trust. It's as though you were in an asylum and somebody 
made decisions for you in your best interest. 
"We're not dealing with the Justice Department," he 
continued. "We're dealing with the Department of 
Interior about the issues here. We don't care about our 
personal situation. Our lawyers don't seem to grasp that. 
They, because of their training, try to get the best deal for 
their clients. We're not dealing with the Justice 
Department. We're here in a supporting role . 
. "Those people had a four hour meeting up at Calico. At first they were skeptical, but in the last hour they voted in favor of AIM. We made a pledge to Vern Long and Pedro Bisonette not to leave until the demands of their Civil Rights Organization were settled. We don't intend to break our word. The sooner the Justice Department realizes this, the sooner serious negotiations can take place.'' 
7:50 PM 

I was taking Dennis Banks' picture in the Command post when we heard what sounded like two dynamite blasts approximately ten seconds apart. Four more booms quickly followed. The camera had been outside in a cold car and the warmth ofthe house had caused the lens to fog. We waited for it to clear. 
32 IND/AN VOICE 
7:55 PM 

Suddenly I heard a loud outburst of30 caliber machine g·un fire. Between bursts, I could hear scattered answering shots. The firing sounded very close. 
8:00 PM 

Lights Out was ordered and I fumbled in the darkness trying to make my way outside. Behind the house there were two motorhomes which were used by ABC and CBS camera crews. Everybody was in mass confusion. Three Indian girls, their blankets wrapped around them, stood in the yard looking toward the shooting. Two warriors moved up to take positions behind an outhouse and shei The network camera crews were all huddled behind their vehicles pointing their microphones and cameras toward the firing which was now rampant. 
One of the men turned on a flashlight to set up his gear. Another quickly shouted, "Turn that damn thing off!" I walked into the yard trying to locate the shooting. Two hissing, thumping sounds erupted about ten yards away. I decided to take cover behind the corner ofa building. One of the network men said, "I've been maced, beat on the head, and sprayed before but I've never been shot at." One of the Indian girls said, "Stick around. It's nothing new to us Indians." 
I was carrying a heavy recording device for one of the camerawomen who had driven me from the airport. Numerous flares lit up the sky turning the whole area into a lighted stage. We were recording the gunfire when we heard APC radio intercepts. · 
"Receiving fire from farmhouse," a voice said. "Receiving fire from farmhouse." I was wondering which farmhouse was being mentioned since I had visited all the bunkers that morning and saw no farmhouses near any of them. 
"Receiving fire from farmhouse. Receiving fire from the ridge!" Another voice interrupted, "Receiving fire from the 
ridge." "Answering fire from the ridge," came a hasty reply. A listener's mouth dropped open. "Those stupid bas­
tards are firing at each other," he said. We listened to the crescendo of machine gun fire in stereophonic sound until it finally subsided. 
8:45 PM 

The lights came on in the Trading Post and a number of people were inside. A Pow-wow had been scheduled for 9 PM and everybody was buzzing. I talked to a Blackfoot warrior dressed in a khaki Army jacket. There was white, cement dust on his glass frames. "I was up there and we were fired on. They splintered the logs and shot up the trailer. I'm glad I wasn't sleeping in there. Somebody behind ine fired a 30-06 from over my shoulder-almost blew out my ear drums. I only had a .38 pistol so I got relieved." 

9:10 PM 

Dennis Banks said, "Well, Let's have our Pow-wow now. We're not going to let the Feds scare us off." 
The crowd laughed. Suddenly, a big, red-bearded man strode in toting a tripod and wearing a huge, black helmet. CBS NEWS was stenciled on the back of it in white letters and a thick, plastic shield covered his face. In these surroundings, he looked like a creature from outer space. Everybody laughed. Clyde Bellecourt put on the helmet and raised a rifle. Everybody cheered. I learned 
that during the shooting, the FBI h telephone. ad cut 
Dennis Banks announced "Just· D 
f. . 1 . f ' ice ep
icia s wait or us to agree with this stat a paper in front of himself. "We're out heme_nt,"he and those guys (Justice Department) ere 10 t~e decisions for us." He read the t · are trying
Ch . s atement
arles D. Abelard, associate deputy tt Pre Pine Ridge. a orney 
"Within the last 45 minutes what h asked. "Tracers. One of the APC's openapdpf~ned'r
f ·t · e ireon
o i s own posts. They m turn opened f APC. The clergy rushed down here to d ire a · 
t , f. . emand ho 
racers we re mng. We do not have tra Department has violated its own agree~ers. ~e ting any kind of response from us We'r ent pnor
h. • · e going
tb 1s statemdendt b~cause _it leaves too much room 
e execute urmg this weekend. We're · any condition that puts us out of this going to demands of the Oglala Sioux are met ,, Th area 
. · ecrowd
its approval. ­An Omaha warrior who I found was a Mari veteran showed me his weapon. It was a ;. Model 1897. The patent number, stamped on the read ~o_vember 25, 1890, which was one month the ongmal Wounded Knee massacre. 
9:30 PM The Po~-wow started with Russell Means and Banks_ leadm~ seven drummers and singers. Instan hauntmg, crymg style of the Lakotah singers pe the a!mosphere. I estimated that 175 people were Tradmg Post. Many attractive young women wrap col?rful _robes and traditional dress began singina. 
shnll v01ces almost drowning out the steady beat drum. 
10:00 PM 

Dennis Banks jubilantly announced that Fool's the 80 year old traditional leader ofthe Oglala's wo on full war regalia and come to Wounded Knee AIM if there was any trouble on Monday. The shouted its approval and the Pow-wow contin noted that there was no drinking or dope taking evidence ofsuch activity by any Indian at Wounded 
8:55 AM SATURDAY MARCH 10, 1973 
Reverend Adams of the National Council of Ch delivered a report to Command Headquarters.· I him when telephone service would be restored anl press ban lifted. He said a 10 AM meeting was sch with the Justice Department to resolve these iss 
I heard reports that people from California, Mic New York, Oklahoma, Minnesota and many local were rallying ten miles away at Porcupine. It WII reported that one of the government flares had over the village and set fire to the grasslands b down a church north of Wounded Knee. During a broadcast, I heard a government spokesman denJ shooting the previous night. 
9:30 AM 

The sun was shining for the first time since I arrived I went with the camerawomen on another picture excursion. We visited the bunker that had been und and saw damaged cement bags ripped open by b The trailer that we inspected the previous. daY sported additional holes, several bullets havmg f right through it. We visited a church site north 0 smouldering ruin burned down to its con­
arrived back in Wounded Knee we heard 

When wt press ban was lifted. Numerous cars with 
ws that t : on their aerials and reporters wearing white 
1fhite ba~ne~ooded the town. Cameras clicked, people
5

lflll band tin the warm sun and all visible signs of ten­
t be ou 
c ed to evaporate. 

·on seemdvised of an important press conference to be 
I ~as ~ne Ridge at 3 pM. Arrangements were made to 
llekl •0 pfWounded Knee with a Chicago newspaperman 
'

rideouth O I remained reluctant. I d'd i n t want my film or tboug pered with so I left them in the command post. aotes ta:e reached the federal check-point, we saw a Befor~ bus parked off the road. It looked like a meeting tebo~ progress but we decided the Pine Ridge press


wasin .. 
conference rated pnonty. 

3.... PM . d' . . ,.
w were in the BIA bml mg awaitmg an important an­
:cement' from the Justice Department which was ::duled to be made simultaneously in Washington and Pine Ridge. It never came. Instead, we heard a reporter dictating the story into the telephone. He said that Federal Marshall's, APC's and roadblocks had been withdrawn. The Justice Department said it agreed to withdraw the roadblocks because "many of the aovernment's objectives had been accomplished" and -mis is the proper step at this point in moving toward a peaceful settlement." 
3:45 PM 
Richard Wilson, Oglala Sioux Tribal Chairman held a irief press conference. He appeared drawn as he read his four-page prepared statement and his voice wavered. It was he who had called for Federal help. He said, "Tribal Governments have been dealt a serious blow as a result of the Wounded Knee incident these past we&i.During these disruptions, the Federal Government in effect IUSpended tribal operations. Negotiations bet een the armed activists and the Federal Government were seldom cleared through the constitutionally-elected leadership of this tribe." There was no question and answer session following his statement. 

4:15 PM 
Justice Department officials held a press conference. After a brief position announcement they allowed the P~s to begin questioning. 
Exactly what objectives have been reached?" a rc~orter asked. "Isn't AIM still holding the town?" 
"'We feel our objectives have been reached." tin Wh~ objectives? I must be stupid", the reporter con­leaU~d, but as I understand it AIM has no intention of 
Vlng the town." "' "'We needed time to prepare warrants."tb · · you kept everybody on the edge of their seats for i.:n days_ while you were preparing warrants?" 00 ter, this same official was asked about APC's firing r1r1nea~h other the previous night. "We have no con­Pa~~ion of this," he said. The room fell into a pregnant 
I Went t · 

loaded _ou side and saw several flat-bed Army vehicles 
to the 8f~h ~PS:'s pull into the equipment yard adjacent bu1ldmg. I was offered a ride back to Wounded and accepted. 
INDIAN VOICE 33 

6:10 PM 

Back inside the Trading Post, I witnessed happy reunions of families and friends. Many released Indians who had been arrested, and arriving caravans from Los Angeles, Washington, Florida, Utah and New York flooded the building. People who abandoned their cars outside the perimeter and walked through the fields into Wounded Knee returned to find their autos vandalized. They accused the 'goon' squad. For the first time since I arrived, I saw the proud faces ofthe old ones and the twin­kling eyes of Indian children. 
8:00 PM 

The room swelled to over 350 people. Crow Dog's father, an aged man, began festivities with a prayer. Dick Gregory gave a rousing speech and pledged his support in fund raising activities on behalf of AIM. Dennis Banks announced that the Grand Council of the Iroquois Confederacy was sending $900 for food, medical supplies and blankets. 
"We're not going out there to get arrested," he said. "We're not leaving here until the demands of the Oglala Sioux are met. Nobody's leaving-we're just starting." The crowd cheered. 
Russell Means warned newcomers, "There is still 100% security. There is to be no drinking or drugs or else you'll be banished. We don't need the whiteman's false courage that comes in a bottle. If you need liquor for your courage, go join the whiteman. There's no room for you here." He also said that Crow Dog came out of the sweat lodge and predicted the Justice Department would surrender within four days. This was the fourth day. 
"Earlier today," he said, "Wallace Black Elk, another medicine man, advised that before sundown we'd receive good news. Half an hour later, the Feds surrendered." The crowd roared its approval. 
Pedro Bisonette said, "We don't want AIM to leave." 
Hobart Keith added, "We have enough signatures now to prevent the Council from getting a quorum. I'm ashamed I wasn't h~re. I've been an unpopular Indian since I returned to my reservation after a ten year absence but I've come back to fight that cyclops of carpetbaggers we call congress. I'm glad to hear Russell Means isn't going to leave. Wah-she-choo ranchers days on this reservation are numbered." 
Ramon Rubideaux : "They kept treating us like we don't know anything. We're fighting and dying for our people who haven't been born yet." 
Enos Poor Bear: "Wah-she-choo's kept passing the buck whether they'd let me come here to visit my wounded son. A friend, told me he had a horse waiting. If I didn't get in here by horseless carriage, I'd of rode in here like a real Sioux." 
Dennis Banks: "We're digging more trenches. We're gonna ask people to bring in more food, blankets and clothing. We're gonna have seminars for non-Indians. There's still trouble up there in Washington and in Gallup. We're back to round one. It's a partial victory but it's not the last." 
9:10 PM 

Traditional songs and dancing started. I made arrangements to ride back to Rapid City with a reporter. We left Wounded Knee at 11:10 pm. It had been 59 hours since I left the airport. 
-RICHARD G. GREEN 
J.r 

34 INDIAN VOICE 
Since the St. Regis reservation strad­dles the Canadian border, both the Department of Indian Affairs in Canada and the Bureau of Indian Af­fairs in the U.S. have some jurisdiction there. And both of these government branches want to strenghthen the power of their elected officials on the reservation, the tribal council. The Longhouse people know, they say, that someone in either Washington or Albany, the capital of New York, is paying the expenses of Gajasra and some of the other expenses and services the three leading progressives have ac­crued. 
One of the first actions of Russell Lazore was to send a letter around the reservation, saying that the White Roots of Peace in their travels around the country had been recruiting poor Blacks and Puerto Ricans from the inner cities, that the White Roots were going to set up a factory on the reservation under government sponsorship, and that the poor Blacks and Puerto Ricans would be put to work in the factory. This letter, which came at a time when the reservation people did not know the true intent of Lazore, stirred up enormous feelings of hostility against the Longhouse people. When it became ap­parent after a time that there was nothing to this scare tactic, the people calmed down, and started asking themselves just what this progressive faction wanted. In the meantime, many of them had fears of their last vestige of land, the small reservation, being taken from them by another trick of the whiteman. 
But when the scare died down, the hand of the Longhouse people, which had been dying down over the years, was stronger than ever, and they have become the strongest force on the reservation. 
Russ Lazore meanwhile had con­tinued his plans for economic development. His method was to set up a committee of I 00 people, which carried out its business in secret meetings, behind locked doors. The Longhouse people even now don't know what their plans are, and so are still afraid what will happen with them next. 
Land Seizure 

Next the councilors tried to take some of the land of the Longhouse people for the Reynolds metals chlorine dump. In their efforts they had the aid of Arthur Gajasra, while the Longhouse people are represented by the Native American Legal Defense Fund (NALDEF). When the progressives tried to take the land by force, they were met by 100 of the Longhouse people, and there was a con­frontation on the land itself. The local police, who had been alerted by the progressives before hand, were there to "keep peace," and would do nothing when the progressives started abusing the Longhouse people. One of them tried to run over some of the Traditionals with a truck, and when some of the traditionals protested this action, the police arrested a Longhouse man, and from there the matter went into court. The matter is tied up in the courts still. 
In the meantime, Tom Porter and Francis Boots, two of the Longhouse men, have been prevented from building the houses they had planned on the land. And the tie-up in the land has prevented the progressives from building the chlorine dump. But the Lazore progres­sive faction is still trying to get the land, and they have the backing of the local officials of the OEO. 
Another tactic was one the tribal council devised to try to start eliminating the Longhouse people one by one from the reservation. Some time ago, Anne Jock, one of the traditional women from the Longhouse, started an Indian Way School on the reservation, 
which was an instant success for the youngsters. Instead of learning that George Washington was the father of his country and that Columbus "dis­covered" America, they started learning about the Mohawk traditions, in ad­dition to the standard math, English, spelling, and so on. 
Suddenly she got a notice from the tribal council to appear before a meeting or she would be evicted from the reservation, with the grounds left unspecified. After some haggling back and forth, that issue is still up in the air as well. 
Deportation 

The progressives saw that they would have to try to eliminate the man who had stood with the Longhouse people through the last seven years if they were to have any success with controlling the traditional people. So they decided to have Rarihokwats, formerly Jerry Gam­bill, removed not only from the reservation, but from the country. 
Rarihokwats was born in the U.S. and reared there, but in 1956 moved to Canada and took out citizenship there. When he came to Akwesasne in 1965 he was a Canadian citizen. Knowing this, Russell Lazore cooked up a scheme to have him deported to C 
.d. ana
h
a~ e sai m letters to the A dian Press Association 
and
Id. 
n ian newspapers arou d 

(. 1 d' n t 
me u mg Indian Voice) No tes was making in exc ' 

ess 0 
a year, and some of the mo 

". h d ney
sip one_ out of the U.S ..,. further, m regard to Rarih · "~e don't need white dict~t midst t? purposely twist th our I~dia? people." His tactt attention m the Indian press to the border patrol. ' 
Lazore conveniently overt 
fact that Rarihokwats had int~ the Bear clan of the nation, and as such did not either the U.S. or to Canad border patrol seized Rariho editor of Akwesasne Notes a who has worked with the longest, in March of 1972 him. He was questioned' about his activities to the so border, and held without bail time, but finally released. this happened at about the that the hearing on the dis was about to take place. 
In the meantime, the tri had met with Larry Lazore, decided they would not try to land if the Longhouse people rid of Rarihokwats. (His Mohawk means "He uncove When the Longhouse people agree to this bargain, the ba again. The tribal council declared that they would removed in three days, and later, he was arrested, and $2,000 bail. 
He was allowed finally to 11 U.S., but on the condition that not accept employment. s· time, he has been restricted to on the paper, and for some forbidden to travel around the with the White Roots of Pea 
On October 31, a hearing w the deportation charges in Rarihokwats was the only called and he testified for four the c~nclusion, he was ast nation he would want to bede and he replied, "To the nation." The government seemed unable to understand of the newspaper -the l~ck subscription list (subscn~ what they can, but can receive for free if they can't pay), the nature of the staff arange work is done in the Indian everyone doing whatever he or and no one is paid a salary) 
ndian way ofsharing. Ap­
ofthe 1 1 philosophy they can tlY the_ o~Je whiteman's way of rstand is wer structure for 
a poh does. hifl~ e s to be the real issue ­dthis seemf the traditional people 
. tance o
f veral hundred of years 

the face O sets to brainwash their In­rthofatt;~{them. Their religion is as s00 ·t was 200 years ago, and 
now as 1 d h' h 
. stronger every ay, w ic monkey wrench into the 

I throws a · d d
h rogressive faction hea e oft e rpes and aided by the tribal
Lazo
nd Gajasra. Before all the a ted right after Russ Lazore 
, . J. 
reservation from San ose,
h
e . h h f'
d to have said t at t e irst
h r
ea 'd f 

. he wanted to do was to get n o tlUJl G mbill because he had many 

J . a·n mi;d and didn't want Gam­
1 1

r ~ ' · h' h . 
Akwesasne Notes m is air.

Uor . h .
ft r the deportation eanng con­ethe authorities and the progres­that they didn't have a case, the at­e Arthur Gajasra met with the mident and some other officials of leyan University, whose Indian tudie Program was the official bli her of the paper, and reportedly old them that the school would get into litical difficulties if it did not stop n orship of the paper. Since the Longhouse people were determined 
h nthey started the publication not to ubli h it any other way than the Indian they refused to build a paid list of u ribers and to follow the other rules 
o the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IR 
) which would qualify them for nd-class mailing privileges. But n institutions of higher education lify for this privilege, the paper has n published officially by one or nother of them · since it started. leyan University was the most nt and had been the sponsor
Ion e t. . 

But after the threats from Gajasra, who . . ome allies in high government po­1100 , the officials of the college deci­they had to withdraw from the ven­ur · Apparently it was made plain to mthat they could get into hot water r?~ IRS themselves if they did not ~raw. So at the moment, the paper
1th 
.out an official sponsor, which nh it <;annot be mailed until it gains not er on R 'h .

e. an okwats thmks one of 

eral other 'b•1· . .
e h possi i ities will under-I t e sponsorship. n the me t· .. 
e b an ime, officials of the IRS J nua een on the reservation, and in Ord oft~ummo~ed. the financial rec-Ind e pubhcat10n in an effort to orne shortcomings and some rea­
sons to close the paper down. At this moment, the paper and its editors and publishers and staff are under surveil­lance from the border patrol, the IRS, local people on and off the reservation, the state police, the Indian police on the reservation -and the FBI. 
Russ Lazore, being frustrated in his attempts to shut down the paper by all other means, including having people e­victed from the reservation, in January personally called the local officials of the FBI to investigate the case of Tom Cook, a young traditionalist leader, who is also president of the Ameri­can Indian Press Association, a coali­

tion of some 150 Indian papers across the country. Cook has refused the draft (he is 25) on the grounds of conscien-· tious objection, which many traditional Longhouse young men have done in the past. They maintain that their religion teaches them the way of peace, and they 
refuse to fight in wars. 
They maintain that they are not sub­ject to the draft, being citizen's of the Mohawk nation at Akwesasne and not citizen's of the U.S., and therefore have refused to register for the draft in many cases. In the middle of January, the FBI arrested Cook, and he has been in­dicted and is now awaiting trial on the charges. 
INDIAN VOICE 35 
But in the middle of all this turmoil, the Longhouse people maintain their magnificent composure, confident they are subject to the wishes of the Creator, who originally gave them the treaty of peace, and they are now once again travelling around the country, talking to various groups, as they have done for the past several years. They have found, they say, that the young people especial­ly need to return to the old ways, and riot just the Indian young people alone. They preach a philosophy of respect for all the things of the Creator -the plants, the animals, the streams, the fish, the birds, the sun, the moon, the stars, the beautiful flowers, and for Mother Earth especially, who gives life to all things. 
They are not ecologists. They are the descendants of the people who were given their way of life long before the word "ecology" was invented, and they are convinced that they must hold on to their Indian ways as an example of the right way to live -in harmony with the earth, sharing the things of the earth with each other, and without the malice in their hearts which destroys alJ har­mony with the things of the earth. 
Their life is not easy. They work for long spells in the gardens on the reser­vation, and many of them have jobs on the outside to support their families. When time comes for the mailing of the 40,000 papers, 90% of which go to indi­vidual subscribers, 50 or more of them will come to the Longhouse for three or four days of hard work bundling, sort­ing, and pasting labels to get the mail­ing ready. 
And when they have time from their 
labors, they start around the U.S. and 
Canada again, going to visit their 
friends from years past, and making new 
friends all the time wherever they visit. 
They can see the fruits of their efforts. 
The people on the eastern reservations, 
perhaps more than any other Indian 
people across the country, have been 
subjected to harassment by state and 
federal authorities for 350 years, all of 
wh0m want them to give up their Indi­
an ways and join with the whiteman in 
his way of life. And sometimes it seems 
the more they resist these attempts to 
brainwash them, the more the policy 
makers try to make them change. 
But in the face of threats from tribal 
councils, FBI, IRS, the Post Office, the 
progressives, the border patrol, and the 
local police, they still maintain their way 
of life. 
-DEAN CHAVERS 



36 IND/AN VOICE 

washings was so cruel that thousands 
and thousands distributed as beasts in 
the famous encomiendas (refuge camps) 
committed suicide, and others by open 
rebellion. The first ones took poison 
from the sap of the yucca or hung 
themselves from trees, since where "one 
had to have pity to see them;" the 
preceding phrase from Las Casas. 
Many years following the conquest, 

Diego Velazquez ordered Rodrigo 
Tamayo, an inhabitant of the town of 
San Salvador de Bayamo, to capture the 
rebels, explained in an official 
document; "I give you permission to be 
able to sell, to exchange, and to alienate 
the shoeing of horses with the irori that, 
I, in the name of His Majesty demands 
to be deposited in the power ofPedro de 
Moron." 
Between 1522-33, a great Indian chief, Guama', commanded a guerilla war against the Spaniards in the area of Baracoa. Bachiller y Morales is the one who said that the prestige of this Indian was so great that he united some rebellious Negroes against their white masters. These rebels led in setting fire to the two populations such as Puerto Principe and Baracoa. Guama' gained control and killed the Spaniards under the command of the Chief Manuel Rojas about the year 1533. 
Likewise history records the rebelliousness and the names of Indians such as Garuguanico of Pinar del Rio, Anaxa of Manzanillo (1531), and an In­dian that killed various Spaniards in Bayamo in 1540. Two years following in 1542, the Spaniards agreed to the right of freedom for the Indians. 
How many aborigines remained in the countryside and towns of Cuba? No one knows for certain how many were able to become known through a census of population, although we know there existed some indigenous groups in the various parts of the country. 
The Communities of Indians 

The town of Jiguami' was founded in 1701 by two Indian brothers, already Christianized, Manuel and Domingo Rodriguez, who carrie from Bayamo and established with other companions in the group called Jiguami-Arriba (Upper Jiguami) and Jiguami-Abajo (Lower Jiguami), formed after a while a town, whose neighborhood in 1737 con­sidered already · sufficient in order to found a minicipality; individuals of the indigenous race composed the two mayors and six aldermen." (Jacob de Pezuela, Diccionario de Cuba, Madrid, 1863). 
Following the middle of the sixteenth 
century, "the Indians that had lived a 
wild life in the country" near Havana 
were reunited in a new town of 
Guanabacoa, the task that the 
Spaniard, Diego de Mazarigos, 
transported to the point. In the 
municipal ordinances decreed that on 
January 15, 1674, it stated that in the 
town lived 300 Indians. 

At a more recent date, as late as 1812, 
there still remained enough Indians so 
that the King of Spain favored them 
with lands from the municipality of El 
Caney in order that they formed a place 
called the Indian community of El 
Caney. 

Other communities established where aboriginal populations occurred were Bayamo and Manzanillo. This experimerit ofconcentrating the Indians in some populations we are obligated to the Franciscan Father, Pedro de Maxia, who proposed it to King Carlos III, who granted permission in order that they as­sociate themselves freely and cover their necessary lands to receive the Christian doctrines and the Catholic sacraments. 
In his monograph, The Rebellion of the Cariban Indians, Dr. Morales Patino tells that these experiments or apparent concessions of the colonizers "was nothing but a variant of the en­slavement and exploitation, nothing possibly terrible. This plan lowered the aspect of an assay of 
the freedom the the lnd~overn 
. 1ans s
f d

act, e_ce1ved greatly by this s of egotism and Spanish. New World." tngenUity 
. In the seventeenth centu dians called Macuriyes in ~' from Hispanola and wer tlllle 
. e estab • 
C1enaga de Zapata wher 

th
friendly contacts with e ey dians, Cubans, in a settpleaceab . 
e-~
Hat1guamco. . There are . Cuban aborigines thromenu nineteenth century The Ughout 
· pro · 
Las Villas and Puerto Prin . 

. f .h . Clpe 
scene O t e mcursi?n ?fa rebem 
was made known mdistinctI 

names Indio Bravo (Brave In~· 
Beltran or Indio Martin whiao. died in 1804, after the go'vern ° Island offered 500 pesos for h.or 
18 
or his death. ~lso ~bou! 1815 occurred a •. Ind1~ns m P1?ar del Rio, althou po~s1ble that 1t was dealt with the traitors as slaves by the co government. And in 1868, the War of the Years began, called by the Cu struggle for national independence as a big feeling among the Ind' Yatara developed, they formed guerillas at the side of the S against the patriots. Good com from the regions of Guan 

and Yateras, the celebrated In­y tera who fought on the 
a H
ry schooner, onor, heroic disembarking on• 

f ouaba. The major Cuban taceo, Crombet, Augustin o,,ta1ns, d others were the insistant 
l"~o an . h
V'',:--. f these Indians, w o were ac­~ rs; to the mountain life, of hun­
orne. s and of the fatigue. Without 
. partie , . d h
b it was those cons1gne t atdo:~d that passing the time, the In­. of Yateras and ofthe other east_ern convinced of the first ard)~tionary principles of war assem­by Marti, a?andoned t~e oppressorwedof soldiers m or?er ~o increase the . of which his arnval m ~a_rt on the paigning army of Manib1sas. The flldian who died violently, Flor erombet, showed following th~ glorious 
· mbarkmem of the Captain of the rating army. No one will be able to reciate how many Indians served in ranks of the liberating forces, but it · famous that the General Jesus Rabi and his brother, Colonel Francisco (Rabi). natives of J iguai and Bayamo respectively, had Indian Blood. It was 
trm.: of Colone! Silverio Guerra, originally of Yateras. t the time of the last armed en­counter, already in the era of the 
public, hetween the Indian and Cuban troops, in the ea.;tern mountains ofCau­. · where tht natives hi11dered the pas­. of the army through their lands, used three deaths and many wounded. Dr. ·Alfredo Zayas governed the 
repubtic. Since 1945, to date, I have personally nown members of these Indians or mest~os, to \'/hich civilization and much of it~ abuses of land holders and utho..it_ies have driven between the mountains and very inhospitable rocky Plate!I of Oriente. In Bella Pluma (Beautiful Feather) 

In Bella Pluma and its environs
reT · · · . ' 
b' urqumo smks its final slopes in rs ig ~artlett Deep, we lived nine bo • _With the descendants of the 
ngmes Wh'l . 
. · 1e we made our first

parat1ons of .
CIUino) h . assent of Pico (Tur­had \ e highest ~ountain of Cuba, Use } e opportunity of living in the J Us 0°. one of these families that of 
1ez d • ' 

lived th ' an Evansta Zamora who 
ere as sq . '

land Wh uatters, that 1s to say, on 
ose own h' .

auth . . ers ip 1s doubted by
ont1es I · • 


. longs to · n Justice, some land 
th

ritance em by the right of the· ' and that which was worked llterwar~s bgrandparents and soon Y their parents. If they do 


INDIAN VOICE 37 
not enjoy his enjoyment, the only debt 
Among the Indians of Yateras 
of many subterfuges or minor legalisms. 
Juan (Diez) told me of the Spaniards From Guantanamo, we went up to and . the Indians, but his mother, t e uplands of Yateras, on a mission to Evansta (Zamora), appears not to have locate the origin of the Rio Toa 
come across Europeans nor Africans. sometimes the most fast flowing rive; His faded hair braided down to his course in Cuba. We passed through shoulders, his overwh{lming oblique Guantanamo by automobile by poor eyes, with the bronzed complexion,-and Ii ad, we arrived at Flecidad de Yateras large mouth with a bitter smile, reflect since where a knapsack for mountains: greater that no one description of the e undertook the road of the lower 
poverty of his race, maltreated about mute to Guayabal de Yateras the five-hundred years. The peculiar quality mountainous land where the pri~cipal of Evarista is who told me, while she cultivation is coffee. We passed through prepared the coffee or wove a blanket t e little villages such as La Perla with a slap of the hand that her parents (Pearl), inhabited in the majority by were Indians of the region, as were her those called the Indians ofYateras. Here grandparents, having this ancestry as a we knew a few of them. Almost all of great honor. Her children preserved the them had the same last name, Rojas or intermixture of the anthropological Ramerez. The elder gentleman traits of both parents. Ofelia, one of the Anselmo Rojas, told us that his mothe; many little children, almost surely was half blooded Indian, who had caught syphilis, was able to get mixed up , ~eserved her blood without mixture with an aborigine of the Amazon basin. 
v1th European or African. None here Blas appears to be a good copper knew of descent from Mexican or mixture; and Abelardo, a mestizo in Yucatan sources. They considered which the Indian traits predominate. themselves descendents of Cuban aborigines. 
This family, like others in the region, live far removed from the complications We continued our ascent of the Rio of civilization, carrying a life almost Toa, always following the monotonous 
natural. None of the children have been noise of ringing cow bells that went with baptized nor recognized legally the the the stirring up of the red dust on the fathers (church) nor by those married by primitive roadways, in the mountains at the law, saying between themselves that times standing over beautiful groves of "it is cited for a given date." It occurs pines, until we arrived at the hamlet of equally as well among the rural Cubans. Carolina, which does not appear to be The offspring carry the mother's name marked on any map of the republic. 
and not that of the father. So the Further on it was necessary for us to children of Juan (Diez) and the Indian . e?etrate this country with the help of a Evarista (Zamora) are called Ofelia gmde who knew the mountains in order Zamora, Abelardo Zamora, etc. o arrive at the headwaters of the Rio 
In referring to the knapsack or Toa; and since there to secure a foot Jolongos, they say managui; to the . ath to the coast, where we proceed to owners ofthe plantations, they call them its mouth, where it emptied, not far 
caciques. On the much contrary of their from the city ofBaracoa. Because ofthis words there are many of Castillian like nec~ssity, we engaged a strong mestizo ranks. They do not say, "yo lo vi," (I see Indian, already advanced in years and it), but "Yo lo vide"employingthevoice very skillful, as far as the hamlet c~lled accent for asi (so). Bernardo, on the banks of the Toa. His 
On one of the nights of our stay there name was Maximino Ramirez. His we were invited by old Juan to cuabear, father was an Indian of Yateras and his an operation that consists of kindling a mother was the daughter of an Asturian 
stack of cuaba, a wood that burns very smuggler and ari African woman. well; taking it in a torch he went away to After locating the sources ofthe river the coast accompanied by his sons and in the middle of a grove of pines, burn{ 
before our terror they undressed and so by extensive fires, we continued on a penetrated almost until the knees course o~ rivers below us accompanied entered the sea water. In the right hand by the fa1_thful Maximino. So we passed they carried a sharp edged machette, at­by ~he nvulets, La Cieba, Lirial, and 
tacked many fish and crabs that they Cas_iana, the last called by an equivalent were able to aim at with certainty of !ndwn name that listed in the list until reach. he didn't make much time. Hours afterwards, all walking, we entered the da1!1p forest of the Valley of the Toa, which we named the Oily Grain, populated by many Yateran natives. We 
38 IND/AN VOICE 
preferred to go to sleep on a point situated lower than the hamlet of Bernardo. When the only village we ap­propriated was of a group of chickens. After having walked 25 kilometers, with our knapsacks on our shoulders, very quickly we went to sleep and stretched out in our comfortable hammocks. 
We were awakened by a crowing of the happy and penetrating song of the chickens. Banishing them we were surrounded by a numerous group of noisy men. We greeted them and answered in a tone of voice not rural We observed suspicion in those human beings of coppery faces, with very faded hair and flushed and intimidated eyes. "We are the Indians of Yateras," that defends his lands against engineers and agricultural .teachers who have been coming to mark the boundaries of the region. Upon entering the group, they raised up violently to the voice of an old peasant, called Celestino Rojas: 
"You all do not measure these lands. No one does this to go for them to help in this. No one is able to take back his "managues" and he goes himself quickly from here." 
Remaining pleasant, without leaving we spoke quietly: 
"When the engineer Valera sometime back came to measure your land, we made him swear ..." 
With much rudeness, yet at the speech of Celestino Rojas, cut off the conversation and speaking to him: "Our mission was not to take away his lands, not simply sympathetically but favorable with his defense of land. We told him of our project of studying the Rio Toa, and our sympathy for the In­dians of Y ateras, we explained to him we know the resistance of the soldiers and engineers that to the service of the rural community who have wished for his concerns for his possessions." 
Already a more cordial tone was given by Celestino and the other rural peasants who explained to us that this rural area was a dependency of the municipality of Baracoa: being com­posed of two-thousand inhabitants, a mixture of Indians, Spanish, Africans, and French, these last two groups came in the time when the Haitians declared their national independence. 
With a guide who was furnished without being impossible to enter the Toa below, at last Celestino Rojas helped us to go to Francisco Ramero and with this we resumed the journey. 
It is very curious that nevertheless these Cubans conserve the custom ofthe asking of the benediction of the elders. When anyone person penetrates into to address oneself to the very old, asking him to praise it. If the petitioner is young, he answers; "This may be," and if he is older, he replies, "that God blessed it." 
Other characteristics of the anatomy that frequent marriage between members of the same family and the very frequent deafness that is suffered by these inhabitants. 
In successive marches in the great Rio Toa valley we were able to admire groups of mestizos as at Yateras, La Algeria, or Bernardo, if not solitary In­dians, that lived between the in­numerable ridges served alone by eating and living in misery lower down. These Indians are much more "pure" than the others. 
The numerous places we passed hourly between Bernardo and Baracoa lie in the topography that was a refuge of wild Negroes when in barbarous slavery. So these arroyos, "Calunga, Caluguita, Los N egros, Los N egritos, Muengo, and Tolonemos," the last called so because following it the guide stated that it was in a palisade of Negroes that had been fleeing from his women respectively, and was saying, "we are all women." 
With the Indians of Yara 

The name, Yara, thanks to the verses of Cucalambe, is so connected to the Cubans, to be able to heart, Yumuri, Vinales, or Turquino. For having been in the valley below, there in Las Denayagua, when Carlos Manuel de Cespedes was concerned with the bell of liberation, the Shout ofYara, that made the attraction that dispersed in the in­fancy in the names of patriotic ferver. 
We set out from the picturesque drainage of the Yara: we directed our last geographic expedition by which we departed from the city of Manzinello, arriving by the main road to the town of Yara in which we heated up at Hatuey. The ford of the Rio Yara made the jeep traverse the river as there was no bridge. Yara has 4,500 inhabitants and following the tradition it was the capital of the Indian chieftanship of Mocaca. From here we proceeded to the Central Estrella Palma and to Alto de Nagua, where we made our field camp ground. Adjusting the new packs on our shoulders, we proceeded on foot up the route, remounting always the florescent borders that bathe the waters of the Rio Yara. 
Packs of burros kicked up the dust of the roads, serenading crossing to our side, going down the mountains of the Sierra Maestra, the products that the peasants of the valley toba~co, other fruits, and 
111
quality taken from the h In the places where 
. . \Veh C
sue as aJUJal, Santo Do Cuada ~el Cupey, we had of kn?w~ng the inhabitants who mv1te us with the 
"h 8anie
wit much emotion. In them we observed man thropological characteris~ Practically all of them d primitive Cubans. Alwaya doubt that they entirely Yucatan slaves, we put the an old silvered headed man. a veteran of the War of 1 firmed that his grandparents Jiguani Indians, the Indian established in the be · eighteenth century. Oral not support the idea ofMe 
These Indians live asoci life left behind in misery. steep lands of Cuba, pc peasant movement, they pushed into the comer between the rustic peaks Maestra: For long times, plated how they fish in the arid fresh waters of the primitive resistance as they digenous views of Col Cuban coast. 
The regional women completion of puberty by age. 
It is admirable of solidarity of the inhabi valley. When a family go to new area of the mountains, first trees by fire to give him fire to it. To destroy the fo la tumba, and this is a operation by all the There does not exist any crimination. In the area descendants of Haitian White Spaniards, besid~ mestizos. "Here everyone said to the old one when we subject. 
Here live thousands oC patriots in almost ina areas of the Maestra. Too of civilization, culture and to these men women, and to be done' for the hi protection. 
-ANTONIO NUNEZ 

IND/AN VOICE 39 
Indian activists gain a foothold 
in politics. 

In California, as elsewhere, Indian people are starting to move on their own to end the injustices that have been fostered by an overly paternalistic, as­similationist society. 
One of the places where this struggle has centered is the colleges and universities. Ever in the forefront of change, the colleges are still rocking from some of the developments of the past few years, and it will be .some time before they are back to normal, after the onslaught from Indians, Chicanos, Blacks, and Asians. 
One place where Indians are really moving is in Humboldt County California. The home of one of the 18 campuses of the California State University and College system, the county is an area with one of the largest Indian populations in the state. There are some 10,000 Indians in the county, and 40,000 in the northern part of the state as a whole. 
But until a few years ago there were practically no Indians in the College. Most were kept out by lack of money, and by high admissions standards. 
Then, with the advent ofthe federally­funded Educational Opportunity Program, (EOP) the campus started pic­king up some Indian students for the first time. 
These few students immediately saw that their numbers were not what they should have been, considering the high percentage of Indians in the county, and the sparseness of the ove'rall population, and they started putting pressure on the college administration to hire an Indian into the administration. 
But until the early part of 1972, no such person existed on the campus. There were two Indians on the staff ­the Student Activities advisor, and a secretary -but no faculty, ad­ministrators, financial aids officers, or other professionals. 
4 0 INDIAN VOICE 
Then, through the efforts of various local Indian students -Russ Redner, Amos Tripp, Nellis Auer -Robert Lake, an Iroquois, was hired as the Special Assistant for Ethnic Affairs to the Vice-President. Since that time, things have not been the same around the campus. 
When he came into the job, the EOP program was in jeopardy, there were no Indian-oriented classes on the campus, there no Special Services Programs for Indian students, and no tutors, counselors, teachers or recruiters for In­dians, despite the fact that they are a large part of the population -about 10% for the county. 
At the same time, there were several groups in the process of formation ­Native American Students Association (NASA), United Native Americans (UNA), and the American Indian Movement (AIM). In the past several months these organizations have also put pressure on the campus ad­ministration to do something about the scandalous situation of the Native American on the Humboldt State cam­pus. 
Through these groups, and working through Lake, the Indian people of the county have begun to move for the first time into the area of higher education. 
And the move is none too soon. The unemployment rate on some of the poorer reservations is 80% and more in the winter. Many of the Indian people have to depend on seasonal jobs, and unskilled labor, and those lucky enough to have jobs are the first ones laid off when cutbacks in the labor force occur. 
Many of those working to try to get Indian students admitted to the campus felt that the Indian would always be on the bottom of the economic heap if he did not have a chance to get the education that would put him on a par with the other people in the population. 
But more than this, they started to assert the value of the Indian cultural heritage, not only for the Indian, but for the population as a whole. And they started to demand that the campus, with its high concentration of Indians, should have the responsibility for developing college courses on the his­tory, culture, sociology, religion, philosophy, and literature of the Native American. 
With input from the Indian com­munity, Lake began to design an Indian Studies Program, and in time, thinking· that what he was hired for was doingjust this, he helped other ethnic groups on campus -Blacks, Chicanos, and Asians -to design academic programs. 
In the proposal for a N . Studies Program, the w~~ive and Sally McClellan w·thiters
1 
sultation with India~ p fr~q 
. . eople in 
mumty -pomted out th of Indian education ha at the I d. 
s not 
n ian drop-out rates national average." are t Further, they pointed tributions of the Native A out. t 
.hf . men
growt o America has be . 
d. . . en 
an .1t 1s high time it was reco 1 . lhnd1an h~s left his heritage not 

t e genetics of the population b cultural legacy that became m· the European to p~oduce the 
culture. Thus the significan 
d. , .b . ce o 

ian s ~ontn ution is greatl proport~on to their total num population, which is only o n"'e·• • ¦--.. 
for the U.S. and Canada (but 1Humboldt County). 
Bu~ from the time the prou.-••--­sub~1tted to the administraf cordm~ . to Lake, they ha ~ackshdmg on their word. p time (the proposal was submi spring) there is no one hired faculty position of Ethnic St Native American Studies. 
In the meantime, the organization, made up of students, had begun its own 
200 beautiful accommodations, exciting entertainm in the Casino Theater, fine dining in the Cameo R taurant .. . and warm, friendly hospitality in the tradition of the West. 
JESSIE BECK'S 
.d

·~ers1 e
t 
HOTEL· CASINO 

IND/AN VOICE 41 
Bobby Lake discusses critical needs of Indian students on Cal State Humboldt campus. 
ion into the failure of Humboldt other institutions around the state bir Indians and people from other orit groups onto the campuses. r on iderable struggle on the Hum­t campus, Lake says; they sue­in having two Indians hired the campus-a guard, and a clerk. theme they heard everywhere they was the same -lack of "­. 1ed Indians" to hire. The offices to follow the guidelines of the umative Action Policy, which calls the hiring of not only "fully · 1ed" minority persons, but for the 
of "qualifiable" persons. lly with the efforts of several of truggle to get Indian programs 
on the campus and in the com­getting them nowhere, the and organizations involved 
to file a class action suit with the of Civil Rights in San Francisco. ffice of Health, Education, and 
re (HEW) sent representatives to mpu on October 27-28 of 1972 ;.f thi writing the team from th~ 
aght Office has not yet visited _mp~ · In all, some dozen Indian lZat:n. in the state participated in 
_ction Suit, which charged the 

u With "d' . . 
t . iscnm~natory practices . ative Amencans in its ad­
ra ta e ed . 
. ucational, and em­
.nt erv1ces." 
lCipatj . 
Ct. ng m the suit were the In­
ion c
!if . ounci.1, the Northern In­
orn1a Ed • .
ucation Pro1ect the
T
eache Ed . J ' 
'bai Cor . ucation Project, the uncil of California, the 

·united Native Americans, the American Indian Movement, the Native American Student Association, California Indian Legal Services, and others. 
At the same time, the Upward Bound Program on the campus, which Lake and -Chris Peters, a Hoopa Indian who was a counselor in the program, had charged with discrimination, generated a petition from the Indian staff members to the administration, demanding the resignation of the director, who is white. They charged this administrator, Jack Lima, with discrimination against In­dians, and according to some of the petitioners, the campus administration laughed when they were presented with copies of the petitions. 
Lake is not sure now whether or not he will have his job when his ap­_pointment ends the first of February 1973, mainly because he and the others who were engaged in the struggle for equal rights for Indians in Humboldt County were outspoken 1n their dedi­cation to the things that needed to be done, he and the others -Amos Tripp, Russ Redner, both students; Sally McClellan, who was working as the Student Activities Advisor, but who resigned under constant harassment ­have put up with much hard work, struggling to make some headway in the path of institutional racism against the Indian, keeping him from jobs, educa­tional opportunities, and self-respect. 
But they feel the battle is not alto­gether lost. In the fights, they have won one or two rounds (while losing most of the fights by knockouts). They did succeed in having an Indian, Andy Anrrioli, hired as the director of the In­dian Teacher Education Project, one of the promising programs funded by the federal government on the campus and aimed at turning out Indian teachers for Indian students. And the administration has finally agreed to absorb the ITEP program into the school budget when the federal funding for it runs out. 
Lake is also confident he will be able to establish an Intercultural Com­munity Center and Museum on the cam­pus soon; the President of the campus has agreed to it, and all that remains is to rais~ some $67,090 for relocation, remodelling, and furnishing two buildings donated by the state department of highways. 
And finally there will be, some time in the future, a faculty position for Native American Studies on the campus; the Upward Bound program will be 
·revamped to meet the needs of Indian students, which it does not do now, they say; and there will be a Talent Search Project funded in the area. 
It has been a long struggle, with some casualties, and possibly more in the future, but all those in the struggle feel th~t the fight has been worth it. At last they are gaining some recognition as In­dian people with a cultural heritage of their own, and are demanding the respect of their fell ow human beings. 
42 IND/AN VOICE 


Ninth Evening 
by Charles and Elaine Eastman 
"Now, my grandchildren," says Smoky Day, "I shall tell you of one who is well known in the wonder-world of our people. He is a great traveller, seems to know everybody, and is always good-natured, but he is also a shameless boaster and plays many tricks upon those he meets on the road. No one is so wise and cunning as Unktomee, the Spider; and yet he likes to appear as simple and innocent as a child! 
"His adventures are many. Sometimes he gets the better of the animal people, and again they may succeed in outwitting him, so that he is well laughed at for his trouble! We may all learn from the stories of Unktomee and his sly tricks how to be on our guard against those deceit­ful ones who come to us in the guise of friends." 
It was a bright, sunshiny day, and the flocks of Ducks flying northward had all stopped to rest beside a little lake, and were splashing and paddling about in the cool water. They were happy and very noisy, but suddenly they ceased their cries and calls and became quite silent, for a queer figure was seen coming toward them along the curve of the beach. It was the figure of a strange little old man, bent nearly double under a huge load ofsomething that looked like dry grass. 
"Quack, quack!" said one of the boldest of the Ducks, as the old man drew near with his burden. "What have you there?" 
"Oh, that is only a bundle of old songs," replied Unktomee with a smile; for it was that sly one, that maker of mischief! 
Thereupon the Ducks took courage, and quacked and fluttered all about him, crying: 
"Sing us an old song, Unktomee!" 

Willingly Unktomee threw down his load upon the lake shore, and with the utmost good nature began to build a 
little teepee of sticks, thatching it 
with the dry grass. In a few minutes it 
was done, and he kindly invited the 
ducks to enter. 
With rustling wings and shining feathers they crowded into the little teepee until it could hold no more. 
Unktomee was there, too. He stayed by the door, and began to sing: 
"Ishtogmus wachee po! 
Tuwaetowan kin 
Ishtah ne sha kta! 
(Dance with your eyes shut! 
Whoever looks shall have red eyes!)" 

Every one of the foolish Ducks shut his eyes tight, and Unktomee, as he sang, quietly seized one after another by the neck as they danced in a ring around the teepee, wrung their necks quickly and cast them behind them. Not one had a chance to squawk, so cleverly was the work done, and there would soon have been none to listen to the old songs! 
Btit after a little a small Duck slyly opened his eyes, and saw U nktomee wringing the necks of his friends. 
"Fly! Fly!" he exclaimed in terror. "He is killing us all!" 
So all the Ducks that were left alive rose up with a mighty rush of wings and a loud clamor of voices. The grass teepee fell to pieces, and the lucky ones flew away; but lying on the ground beside U nktomee were enough fat Ducks for a fine feast! 
And the little Duck that peeped forever after had red eyes! The children liked this story very much, but it was shorter than usual. "Tell us about the feast!" they cried. 
"Tell us about the feast of Unkto So old Smoky Day began a 
. 
Now U nk~omee wished to 
feast. The first thing he did 
stand and cry aloud: 
!!Chagah aoo po-o-o! ( 0
brmg me a kettle!" 

He called and called for a 
Ion 
At last somebody appeared • 
kettle. It was the Fox, ho 
carrying it in his mouth. 

thanked him carelessly, and 
waiting awhile, the Fox went 
away again. 

Then U nktomee dressed the 
whose necks he had wrung, built 
fetched water and put them on o 
But he was tired as well as hun 

while his dinner was coo · 
thought he might as well take a 

he lay down in the warm sand n 
first telling his Face to be on t 
and to twitch if any one came 
awaken him. 
While U nktomee slept, 

returned with a friend. Unkt 
Face did not twitch as it had 
to do, for the Foxes stroked it 

tly, and told it to be quiet. Havi·n1~
• 
this, they quietly ate every bit 
rich meat, and put the bone -­
1..-.... 
the pot. 

When at last U nktomee yawn•~•• awoke he was very hungry ind 
looked to see whether his d. 
ready, and found nothing int 
except bones! 
. 

"Ah! the Ducks have bo long," he said to himself. The will all be in the bottom of th 
When he discovered that t had been picked clean, he angry and scolded his Fa<:C
' · · tun

for not awakening him 10 • • 
He who deceives others ma 
be caught some day. 



IND/AN VOICE 43 
An IV Editor addresses his peers at Denver convention. 
.· \. Jeech i,t ·as rhe key­
11 
111


f""'~ ~ ,~: First Annual Con­,JJre.,., ,dAt rican Indian Press 
I.rhe me 
t~ IPA) held in Denver, ;,,1i<'ll (A h . /6-18 /972.
o\•en1 et •
1 
o "'. 1 h \" Dean Chavers.
debw:>re( . 

. and Gentlemen, it will be dif-
LldieS xpress how glad I am to
for me toe . . d 
in this place, at this time, an this special group o~ peo~le. 

• for me personally, this meetmg the two groups of peopl~ I the most interest in -Ind~an 
first of all, and workmg · ts secondly. . too long on the Amencan sce_ne, has been too little connect10n 

the Indian and the press, and 1e111lt has been too many trage~ies. 
American press in gener~l pndes on the role it carries w1thm the · n system. It has been called the 
Branch of Government by no respected commentor than Mr. Cater. 
press prides itself on the job it in making the American system And the way it carries on this is by being completely ent of the system; it can stand the system and throw rocks 
and when this is necessary. It can the system work, so the argument by explaining the system to the 
•And most importantly for In­
~ple, it can protect the rights of groups when these rights are 

'-.&.:IIIM 
the American press in general has American Indian down. The ~ the Indian seem to be lost on 
ordinary member of the working 
.'-'~en it is said that the Indian has nghts, promised to him in treaty Executive agreement, the typical reaction of the press has been to say,_ Why should the Indian be any different than me? Why shouldn't the Indian be made to leave the reservation, speak English, and be like me? 

And in so doing, by denying the right of the Indian to be himself, to preserve his Indian heritage and live his life the way he wants to live it, the press has betrayed the Indian. By denying the right of culturally different peoples to live their lives according to the way they want to live them, the press has been by and large guilty of the same sin that !he rest of American society has been gmlty of. By expressing the ethnocentric notion that the American way is right, and that all other ways are wrong, the press has perpetrated and pursued a policy of institutional racism. 
Perhaps it is difficult for the press ofa society which has a heritage of a long debate over whether the Indian was a has full human rights; at least that is the argument I hear all the time. But has full human rights at least that is the argument I hear all the time. But regardless of the rightness or wrongness of that weakness, the press of America has let the Indian people down. 
Where was the press ofAmerica when Custer invaded the . territory of the Dakota? Covering the invasion of Custer, and calling it a heroic endeavor, when Custer had been ordered to stay out of Sioux country by the War Department and the White House. 
Where was the press when the Sioux were killed by the hundreds at Wounded Knee? Covering the so-called heroism of the murderers of the Army, and ap­plauding when thirty of them were awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor. 
Where was the press when the Indians of North Carolina had their basic counstitutional rights taken away by the constitutional revision of 1835, after which thev could no longer vote, carry arms, or ·own .and? Being apologetic with the slave holders who pushed the taking away of these rights, _and explaining the injustices to t~e publ_1c as an act fitting the best of white society. 
Where was the press when the Congress debated the Dawes ~ct, under which Indians lost 2/ 3 of the1r land,for ten long years, finally passing it and forcing the American systei:n unilaterally on the Indian, without _his consent? The press was with the Indian interest organizations, such as the As­sociation on American Indian Affairs, pushing for the passage of !he A~t. The press was mor~ interested m tak1~g In­dian lands for white settlers than 1t was 
in protecting the rig~ts of Indians as 
promised in 400 treaties. 
Where was the press when the Indi~n haters ofthe 83rd Congress succeeded m pushing termina~ion throu~h, furthe~ taking away the nghts of Indian people. The press was sitting in the Senate gallery, recording the comments of t~e so-called Indian experts and their sellout Indian freinds to the effect that the Indian would be better off without his land and the last, final protection to which he was entitled. 
And where has the press been in general for the last several decades, times when Indian people have been harassed by mrnrng, timber, agricultural, oil, uranium, and water interests trying to take away the last few resources that Indians have? The press of America has been sitting safely in the cities, sending a reporter and photographer to cover the colorful In­dians who came to town to dance for the tourists and make a few dollars. 
Where was the press when the Kinzua 
Dam the most worthless public work in 
Ame;ica, was forcing a whole 

44 IND/AN, VOICE 
reservation of Indian people to move 
from their homes? When the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs took away the rights of 
Indian ranchers after the Second World 
War, and gave their land to potato 
farmers, developers, and other exploit­
ers who proceeded to drain the reser­
vations of every penny they could, 
while the Indian people, with no one to 
advocate for them, got poorer and 
poorer? · 
In general, then, the press, when it has 

not been anti-Indian, has been rabidly 
pro-white, and in the process has failed 
the Indian people almost completely. It 
has been a partisian press on the side of 
the Great American Developer and 
labor exploiter , and thus automatically 
against the Indian. For most of the 
press, Indian material consists of an oc­
casional story about the poor conditions 
of the poor Indians on the reservations. 
The press asks, "Why would anyone 
want to live on one ofthese godforsaken 
reservations anyway?" And the reporter · goes back to his urban office to write about the poor Indians he has just visited for two days on assignment from the city desk. 
Good reporting on Indian affairs has been, up to one year ago, almost completely non-existent in the United States. Practically every story about Indians was, and still largely is, writ­ten by the new cub reporter, who is assigned the stories at the bottom of the totem pole, thus assuring the In­dian that what is written about him in the U.S. Anglo press will be ama­teurish, ill-informed, and half-baked. The good reporters on the papers, radio, and TV stations are sent on the important stories-to the state house, the city hall, and the· White House-to assure their superior skills in reporting what the editor regards as the big news. The news from Indian country is almost never important to them. 
A survey would show, however, that the majority of stories about Indians ip the U.S. press are not published in the major pupers. The urban dailies are far removed from Indian affairs, in general, simply because of geog­raphy. And what is left, the papers in the reservation towns, and those towns close to the reservations-Gallup, Norman,-Oklahoma City, Rapid City, Denver, Billings, Reno, Spokane, Browning, Winslow, Phoenix, Albu­querque, Claremore, and the like­the papers in these towns are among the most rabid anti-Indian papers in the nation. The coverage they give of Indian affairs is sure to be slanted, biased against the Indian, full of dis­
tortions and prejudice, and, at the 
very least, paternalistic and against 
an·y form of self-determination for 
Indian people. 

In general, then, the treatment of 
the Indian in the press of white Ameri­
ca is .bound to be either anti-Indian 
or half-baked. The half-baked ones do 
almost as much harm sometimes as 
the anti-Indian ones. News from Indian 
country for them tends to be either 
strange and therefore interesting, or of 
not much importance. 

But of course it is of extreme impor­
tance to Indian people. The confusion 
over what Indian rights are cannot be 
allowed to continue. The Indian people 
must have a voice in the running of 
their own· affairs. And this is where 
the Indian press comes into the picture. 
What is this Indian press we are talking about? Is it tribal papers, with a controlled circulation going to only the adults who are members of the tribe? Is it general interest papers that are put out by Indians or mostly about Indians, but which have a circulation both on and off the reservation? Is it the off-reservation medium, which seeks to inform the non-Indian audi­enc·e of Indiari affairs, and in the proc­ess gain friends for the Indian, friends who will come in handy in the next fight (and of course we all know there is another fight just down the road). 
I submit that the Indian press is all these things, and something else. That something else is the thing that ties all these other members of the press together-the American Indian Press Association. Because without the tie, the Indian press is a collection of iq.di­viduals; with the tie it is an association of well-informed working journal~sts, who can better inform their readers of the national issues affecting Indian people. 
And what has this press association done in its first year of life? With the dedication of its staff, and the many contributors to the news services, the association has done' a marvelous job. Despite not being funded during much of this time, with the realization that it cannot exist without outside funding, the association has covered all the major stories in Indian country for the past 15 months. The fight of the Quin­ault tribe to control its timber re­sources, the shelving of the Kennedy Education Bill and the passing of a much weaker substitute, the fishing rights struggle on the Northwest Coast, tlie fight of the Pitt River Tribe to regain some of its ancestral land, the 
murders of Richard 
Yell ow Thunder s·u 
. ' 1 y
F
. ems, and several o important fight Withi structure of the BIA­dozens more have colll of the 150 Indian pa e nation for more than a'Pe 
. I would like to end with a quote from th Indian Voice magazi: proud members of AIPt 
The significance of the short run effects is in .the_ long-ran~ organization will have the Indian people of closer together, and well-informed on In and federal policy. AIPA, the Indian n very fragmented; the from Washington tri?al paper is likely news from a visit the man makes to the the news is almost · limited to items of only the local people. enormous coverage given its Indian news all of our horizons ened. We can keep up is going on in Was · for Indians is very im 
And of course the just that-an Association, rnany membe·rs from over the country. With 
. and support of every Association is nothing. of the members, the one of the strongest fo country, going out to thousand people with that is vital to every In know. Without the time there might be no Indian tribal government, forces on the American who are out to get In resources have their way, be no more Indian rights: can Indian Press Ass . strongest · safeguard ~ keeping the people inf1 Indian · affairs, it serves most vital services in All of us here have to ish, defend, and strengb 
you. 


/ND/AN VOICE 45 
~..\)~ 

, \,,0 What happens after the headlines die
fov 
out in the media? 


. the past few years the Indian ounng the occurrences of many 
rid has seennts Many ofthese appear
• cant eve · 
1 . 
di' a once or interm1tten­
mass me ,

tb 
are apparently forgotten,

and then . t by the pubhc. . . for Indian people f1ghtmg ~or But . h •n the face of a massive

ir ng ts 1 
they are of course not
ucracy, 

0 otten. d' r,,-· ·11 
. thi's month In zan Y ozce w1

tarting ' 
On some of these events, on

ollow up . . t 
theory that it might be mstructive o hat happens to them after the orks have died down. On of the most significant of these 
been, and still is, the struggl~ of t~e Pit River Nation in Northern Cahforma 
or their ancestral lands. As far as the lie is concerned, many must have confused when the Pitt River pl began to claim th~t _their land_s, 
mpri ing some 3.86 m1lhon acres m . northeast corner of the state, had taken from them illegally in 1853. made their claims by occupying of the disputed lands in the spring 
1970. Their occupation triggered a · of similar land claims by other around the nation. 
Th truth of the matter is that theirs is 
a new claim. The 750 landless hers of the 11 bands had been 
· ing their lands for years, but the rcnce came when they decided that time had come to make a positive 
that would indicate their rmination. The occupied a campground in the n o_f Pitt River country, supposedly Ion mg to Pacific Gas and Electric 
Company. Two days later, 38 of them were arrested and charged with oc­cupying private property. Shortly thereafter, more of them, and _some of the ones who had occupied the campg~ound, occupied Lassen National Park. They were also arrested. Other oc­cupations by them were followed, i~­cluding one in the Four Corners area m which old men, women and men alike were clubbed, beaten and hauled away by Forest Rangers and Federal Marshalls. 
The people who were at Four Corners were charged with assaulting police of­ficers, and other charges. All those so charged were acquitted at a jury trial in Sacramento last year. Those charged with occupying private property were also acquitted. The only trials still pen­ding are for three charged with cutting trees illegally. 
In the meantime, the people went back and occupied a 1,000-acre tract of land "belonging" to PG&E. They have been there since. PG&E will not press charges, and the Pitt River people will not leave. They may have hit an im­passe. 
In the meantime, the members of the tribe have been engaged in the fight against the California Lands Clai1!1 Case, in which the federal government 1s trying to extinguish Indian title t~ 64 million acres in California. The Indians of California, most of whom do not have any land of their own, are sup­posedly being paid for this 2/ 3 of the state at the rate of 47<1: an acre. 
The Pitt River Nation filed a suit in the Court of Claims in Washington, D.C. seeking further dama~es in the Claims case. Through the smt, they are seeking the return of their ancestral ands, and do not want money payment for them. 
The federal government announced late in 1972 that it would make Alcatraz Island in San Francisco Bay, which was occupied by Indians of All Tribes_ from November 1969 until June 1971 , rnto a national park. 
Indians of All Tribes had sought to create an Indian cultural center on the island, and during months of negotiations with the federal government had maintained t~eir stand. The occupation ended with three members charged with selling copper tubing from the island. They were later convicted and were given suspended sentences. 
Many of the people who were active in the occupation have continued to work in Indian organizing activities around the nation. John Trudell is working with Indian youth. La _Nada Means is attending law school rn the District of Columbia. Richard Oakes was shot in September of 1972 by a YMCA camp manager near Santa Rosa, California, and died instantly. 
The future of Alcatraz, the lonely island prison facing the San Francisco skyline, is to be a tourist resort. . . 
Coming: Black Mesa; the fishing rights struggle in Washington State; civil rights in Oklahoma and elsewhere; land disputes everywhere, and more. 




46 IND/AN VOICE 

• : FOR A
•
•
•

: FRIEND...
•
•
•

: AGI FT
•
•
•

: SUBSCRIPTION : 
One-year gift subscription 
indian lloicc 
* Canada and other countries add $1.00 for postage. 
To: IND/AN VOICE. P.O. BOX 2033, SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 
•
•
•
•
•
•
• ¦ --: •
.... ­
• 
• · 

-------~~-­
.• 
-

. PLEASE ENTER MY OWN SUBSCRIPTION, ALSO. 
• 

I am enclosing a check or money order for $ __for___subscriptions. 
. 1 sub. 7 • .50 . 2subs.15.00 . 3 subs.22 .oo My name i5-------__,.,p1ease--,---pn-.-.ntJ.---------------.~ 
Address City.___________.State__________ 
. year gift to 

Address,____________ ½ pint crushed oxacel leave City 
or sour grass ---,-------------~ I pint water 
d
St + 
·3 tablespoons finely grouo
ate 

• ~ 
• :
•
•
•
:
•
•
•
:
•
•
• 
or nut meal Add salt and simmer s10 
' ho
sweet enough, add more Eat with fry bread. . 
~ 

INDIAN REC1p 
Possum 
Parboil possum unt·1 
· 1 ten
f 11. 
a mg apart; pour off , are ready to make st Water. to bake it in a rock ;w. _(Our
L 0 en 1n the 

ay possum on several la corn shucks. Pre-boil grapes, paw paws, or Cover possum with fru't pc shucks, cover whole wit~ ho""t"119' ..... coals, and leave until coals The same method can be USed--••.._ 
the possum in an oven. Sw can be used as the fruit. (When the_ possum, remove the glan trails _scrape clean. Take th 
: scrapmg and put it in roe · ready fo r tanning.) 
Eel, stewed or fried 

Skin and clean the eel. head and take out all the in id stringy. Cut into pieces about ches long. Parboil about t n and drain off water. Take the broth, about a pint, from 
· squirrel, and add to the ste . white onion salt and bird peppers, or wild hen pep slowly about 25 minutes, and with cactus pad or ground little. The best way to use 
· leaves is to cut them into thin drop them into the thickenin give it more flavor. Hen pep like black pepper, but if put into just before ·serving is tangy· specks taste really good. 
Pig tail sweet potat Peel potatoes, and shape long thin strips with a knifi • :cold salt water for about an b0111,.nJr­deep fat, drain on shuck lea 
•Kids love them; they taste potatoes, but better. 
Elderberry stew 
I½ cup honey (remove comb 
I pint of berries-crushed 


WASHINGT<?N, D.C. -(AIPA) Below is a conden­. of the White House response to the 20-point position uo~formulated by the Trail of Broken Treaties Caravan. ~White House n~sp?nse, sig?ed by Leonard Garment and frank Carlucci, pnnc1pal White House negotiators Jan. 9, 
delivered to the TBT g~oup the same day. 
Original demands appear m bold face and the responses in 
light face. . . .
l-2-5-6, Restoration of Treaty-Makmg, Creation of treatJ Commission, R~submission of Unratified Treaties To Senate, and All Indians Governed By Treaty: Indians bave been citize_ns ~inc: _I 924, and_ a government does not 
•ke treaties ~1th its c1t1_zens. Indians already have or the administration 1s attemptmg to create mechanisms through which Indians can "represent their own interests" and to c1emand new treaties "is to raise false issues, misleading to die Indian people and diversionary from the real problems. 
3-9. Address to the American People in Joint Session of Conl'ess and a New Congressional Committee Structur e: These demands should be addressed to Congress. 
4. Commission to Review Treaty Commitments a n d 
lolations: This is the responsibility of the Indian Claims Commission._ Pr~sident Richard M. Nixon has alrea dy proposed leg1slat10n to protect Indian rights -the Ind ian Trust Counsel Authority. 
7-1. Mandatory Judicial Relief Against Treaty Rights 
lolations, Ju~icial Recognition of Indian Right T o ~ret Trea~1es: These demands are either based on a ~under~tandmg of the judicial process or are already at­llm:8~le 1~ the courts or give Indians highly preferential positions m controversies about their treaty rights o r present constitutional problems. ' 
I IOA. Land Reform and Restoration of HO-Million Aaes, and Priorities in Restoration: Indians either alrea dy"!' most of their land, or are litigating for money compen­fi tion before the Indian Claims Commission. The demand 
or ~ryetual n?n_-taxability and non-alienability is in part ~tatave of ex1stmg rights, would deprive Indians of th eir ·-ea•t to d 1 · ·
ibl ea. wi_t~ their own lands, and would be legally im­con .de. PnorJties on the return of land would meet with : erable ~iff e:ence of opinion" among Indian people. 
1
1.conc,· ~onsohdat10n of Indian Land, Water, Natural and mac Resources: The government will give careful 
Yto the .

lie Ter ~epa_rate essay promised 'by TBT members. · L rnmation of Leases and Condemnation of N o n­deanand 1nd _Titles: The TBT people should take this 
1

Ibey wil~~thehI_ndian colleagues since they determine how 
· by ~e. t ei~ land. C~ndemnation of non-Indian lan d 
1

1 D ; ians is legally impossible and/ or impractica l. erau.; f epeal of Menominee, Klamath and Other 
•tte1 
•on A~ts: Whether the federal government should 11 R rnpt this will have to be studied at g. reater length 

• 
estor r ·


Urn a •on of Rights To Indians Terminated b y 
tts!~Etand R~vocation of Prohibitions Against "D ual 
· xcept • · •

Criteria f m a 1ew mstances, tnbes decide what are or membership. 
IND/AN .VOICE 47 
The government responds in typical fashion ... 
12. Repeal of State Laws Enacted Under Public Law 280: 
A state matter. States can return jurisdiction over Indians to the U.S. but are not required to do so at a tribe's request. Congress does have the power to take back jurisdiction. It is not true that P.L. 280 depreives any tribe of civil or criminal jurisdiction. 
13. Resume Federal Protective Jurisdiction for Offenses Aga~st Indians: Congress could not, constitutionally, com­ply with this demand. 
13A. Creation ofa National Federal Indian Grand Jury: It would be a misguided choice indeed to subdivide our American system ofjustice into ethnic slices each skewed to give special attention on a racial basis. ' 
138. Tribal Jurisdiction Over Non-Indians Within Indian ~~servat~ons_: Such a proposal would adversely affect the c1t1zensh1p nghts of non-Indians both as citizens of their state and as cltizens of the U.S. Non-Indians should, then, also be allowed to participate in ¢ribal government. 
13C. Rehabilitation and Release Program for State and Federal Indian Prisoners: A program has been in effect between Interior and Justice for the last two years which as­sists in doing precisely this. 
14.Abolition of Indian Bureau by 1976: Tribes are taking over ~ anage~ent and operation of federal program, and BIA1s becommg an Indian trust and technical assistance a~ency, with pace of change at Indians' option. Where BIA will be placed eventually will be decided after close con­sultation with Indian leaders. 
15-16. Creation of "Office of Federal-Indian Relations and Community Reconstruction" and Priorities and Purpose of New Office: Indian people, no less than President ~nd_C?ngress, would and could be defrauded by new mstitut1on as proposed specifically, Neither President nor Congress would permit its creation. Second part of new proposal should be addressed to Congress. 
17. Indian Commerce and Tax Immunities: As state citizens, Indians should not be set apart from fellow citizen~ in matters not related to trust, even if Congress had ability to grant special tax exemptions. For tribes to be treated as sovereign nations in relation to foreign nations is in­consistent with the status of their members as American citizens and could lead to erosion oftheir special relationship with the federal government. 
1~. Protection of Indian Religious and Cultural Integrity: Indians are protected in these rights by the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. 
19. 
National Referendums, Local Options and Forms of lndian Organizations: Elected tribal governments are the principal spokesmen for their members. The government does listen to other individuals and groups. 

20. 
Health, Housing, Employment, Economic Development and Education: The question is not whether Indians have justneeds but whether pumping more money in the same old way is the best method of meeting them. Congress does not accredit school. Private accrediting systems accredit schools .. :>tit{' 


48 IND/AN VOICE 
·:ft INDIAN VOICE ~· 
U: now on the air! U 
. 
IND/AN WORLD NEWS 

. 
TRADITIONAL MUSIC 

. 
INTERVIEWS 



O O Q.San Francisco Bay Area :) O O • 
. KTAO fm 95 . 
los gatos, ca. 
WED. 12 noon to 1 . KOME fm 98.5 . 
san jose, ca. 
SUN. 9:30 pm to 9:45 
0 0 0 0 Phoenix Area O O O O 
. KDKB fm 92.5 . 
phoenix, ariz. 

: FRI. 6:30 pm to 6:45
:. Narrated by Spotted Bull . 
ATTENTION SUBSCRIBERS 


Change of Address 1 Zip Code Correct 1 
We can assure prompt delivery of your maga­zine if we show the cor rect address and ZIP Code on your mailing label. (Postal regula­
tions require us to file addresses according to ZIP CODE.) If you move, be sure to 
Fill out and mail to: 
IND/AN VOICE P.O. Box 2033, I Santa Clara, California 95050. 

1­
Ll,J 
w 
I­
>­
a:: <
~
1-1­
(1) (.) (1) 


Department of the Interior's Bureau of Indian Affairs, has announced that two 26 inch by 36 inch maps of Indian coun­try are now available to the public through the Superintendent of Documents. The maps are: ''Indian Land Areas: General" and "Indian Land Areas: Industrial". 
"Indian Land Areas: General" shows Federal Indian Reservations in chrome yellow. In addition it includes an outline of former Indian reservations in Oklahoma (the Indian tribal population has tended to remain within those general boundaries), existing and planned tourist complexes on Indian lands, interstate highways (they take a traveler to Indian lands and com­munities), National Forests (where a traveler might wish to camp), National Parks and Monuments and National Wildlife Refuges ( often of interest to a tourist to Indian lands and com­munities), State Indian reservations, In­dian groups without trust land, and federally terminated -tribes and groups. A comparable map published in 1965 shows merely Federal reservations. 
"Indian Land Areas: Industrial" also shows Federal Indian Reservations in chrome yellow and an outline of former Indian reservations in Oklahoma. In ad­dition it indicates industrial parks, airstrips and airports, and interstate highways. 
On the reverse side of the map are the Bureau of Indian Affairs Agencies and Area Offices with jurisdiction over the various Federal reservations and Federally recognized tribes, and their addresses. 
The "Indian Land Areas: General" can be combined with another Bureau of Indian Affairs publication soon to be available from the Superintendent of Documents for a comprehensive picture of Indian affairs as they are today.This second publication is entitled "American Indians and Their Federal Relationship". It lists all Indian tribes for which the Bureau of Indian Affairs services in recent years, those recognized only for claims purposes, and certain other categories. 
The basic listing of the t . 
State. Throughout the boo~ct 
numberTfho_llows the name of each 
group. 1s number indicates 
of each as of March 1972. A 

number pre~edes _the names of 
the groups listed m this book) t 
keyed to "Indian Land Areas· e 
"Indian Land Areas: Ge~ 

"Indian Land Areas: Industrial 
order~d for 35 cents each 
Superintendent of Document 

ton, D.C. 20242. "American 
arid Their Federal Relationship 
ordered fo r 30 cent 

Superintendent of Documen . 
QUARTERLY INDIAN FAIR, spo 

the San Jo·se Indian Center will 
first Arts&. Crafts Show at Mit 
School. "Indians from the en · 
Area will be represented and a 

committee will examine all artif: 
authenticity," Gus Adam 

Director said. Hours for the Fair · Saturday, April 7, 1973, 11am to Sunday, April 8, Noon to 6pm. High School is located at 5000 
Ave., San Jose, CA. 

BAY AREA M ONTHLY Pow-o Friday; American Indian Cen Valencia, San Francisco, CA. or information, phone 415 / 552-1 Saturday; Sioux Tribe, Sil r HS 3434 Silver Creek Rd., CA~ {Tully Rd. East off Hwy 101) 408 / 25 l-7736. 2nd Saturday; Indian Council, Redwood Fruitvale Ave., Saratoga, C · 
1
formation, phone 408/ 379­
Saturday; United Bay_ A~ea 
YMCA, 24718 Mission 
Hayward, CA. 4th Saturda 
American Indians, Peter 
School, 2nd and Hedding 
408/
Jose, CA. Phone 
Intertribal Friendship House 
CA. For information, phone 
1235 American Indian Co 
. F CA for
Fresno St., resno, · -8 
formation, phone 209/ 268 
t isn't featunid
If your item, new product or even ted or will
I
fault! We only ask that it is Indian-re ~n advallCC to Indians. Send your item six w:::sclara, C dian Country, P.O. Box 2033, Sa 

f!!J!Jp)flA~.~;... .J~Q~f.l, /)
By Marcelle Masson. Fas-and Thier Neighbors By Wtlltam W1lloya (Eskt­
cinating stories and legends of the Wintu Indians of northern California, as told absorbingly by an "old one", Grant Towendolly. 
Clo 1h 5.50; paper 2.50 
-2. Buffalo Heart By Sun Bear. Exciting stor­ies of Indian culture, reli­gion, history and heroes from the standpoint of an 
Indian who knows much about the old ways. 
C/01h 6.00; paper 3.00 
3. Great Upon the Mountain -Crazy Horse of America 
By Vinson Brown, illus­trated by AdelberL Zeph ier (Yankton Sioux). A study in depth of the Indian un­derstanding of life, earth and spirit as seen through the life and feelings of a famous Indian holy man and warrior. With two color plates and many drawings. 
C/01h 4.95; paper l.95 
4. Indian Talk-Hand Signals of the North American Indians 
By Iron Eyes Cody. Illus­trated with photographs by the author and his Seneca Indian wife; 80 pages; ovet 150 illustrations of the sign language. An easily-under­stood guide to a fascinating language used by the Plains Tribes for centuries. For all ages. 
C/01h 4.95; paper l .95 
5. Lord of the Dawn, Quetzal­coatl 
By Tony Shearer. The story of a ncient Mexico and her great prophet-King, Quetzal­coatl, the Plumed Serpent, in poetic prose. 7 color plates and numerous draw­ings. 
6. Native Americans of Cali­fornia and Nevada 
By Dr. Jack D. Forbes. 
Study of Indian culture in this area from prehistoric times to the present plus a fascinating history of Indian­white relations. 210 pages, 18 photographic plate~, 6 maps, and a history chart. A graphic and realistic ac­count, frankly pointing out crimes against the Indians. 
Clo th 6.95; paper 3.95 
By Vinson Brown; illus1ra1ed by Douglas Andrews. 64 pages, plus a full color map that shows the old trails and villages and wth paintings of Indian life; 70 illustra­tions in book, including 12 photographs. All these finely illuminate a simply and in-terestingly-told text. 
Clo1h 5.50; paper 2.50 
8. Pomo Basketmaking By Elsie Allen. The life and art of this devoted Pomo grandmother. Mrs. Allen gives complete step-by-step directions for recreating beautiful and useful baskets, from gathering and prepar­ing roots and feathers to actual weaving and finishing of the baskets. Fully illus­
trated. 
Cloth 5.00; paper 2.00 
9. Songs of the Yokuts and Paiutes 
By Alfred Pietroforte. lndi­an folk singing, adapted for grade school use by an in­structor at the College of the Sequoias. Of interest to anyone interested in Cali­fornia and Nevada Indians. Many pages of actual songs are accurately transcribed in, the book. 10 full-page photographs and 6 drawings. 
Cloth 4.50; paper J .50 
10. Tales of the Sea Foam By Lisette G. Brown. True adventures of an 11-year­old white girl with an Indian group of the northwestern California coast. A wise and wonderful old Indian wo­man lends strong interest to the story. Aids relations · and understanding between 
white and Indian children. 5 photos, 12 drawings. 
Cloth 4.75; paper l .75 
11. Tapestries in Sand-The Spirit of Indian Sandpaint­ing By David Villasenor, a part Otomi Indian, who has learned sandpainting from the Navajo medicine men. He writes with deep beauty arid feeling of this ancient art and its inner meanings. Many fascinating stories of Indian religion and culture are told. 11 2 pages, 16 pages of fine color plates. Cloth 6.25; paper 3.25 
mo) and Vinson Brown. 
Strange and prophetic vi­sions of the Indian Peoples. Five magnificent full-color reproductions of paintings done by Indian artists. 20 line drawings and 104 pages. 
Clo1h 5.50; paper 2.50 
Good Medicine Series 13A Life in Harmony with Na­ture 32 pages. Paper J.50 
138 Companion Volume 31 pages. Paper 1.50 I3C In Glacier Ntl. Park 32 pages. Paper 1.50 13D Traditional Dress 50 pages. Paper 2.50 
I3E Tipi Life 
32 pages. Paper 1.50 13F Good Medicine Thoughts 32 pages. Paper 1.50 
13G Legends 64 pages. Paper 2.50 13H Spirit at Hidden Valley 120 pages. Paper 3.00 
14. Strange Journey By Louis Lone Dog (Mo­hawk-Delaware). We were intrigued and delighted by the haunting loveliness and striking spirituality of the face of this Indian woman, but even more by the extra­ordinary adventures of the spirit of which she writes. Illustrated with 2 color plates and several drawings by Tso Yazzie. Paper 1.50 
Charles Eastman Books 15A Indian Boyhood 
oPaper 3.50 
15 B Old Indian Days 
Paper 3.50 
I 5C The Soul of the Indian 
Paper 3.50 
16. Gospel of the Redman 
By ErnesL Thompson Sewn. 
Depth and beauty of reli­gion. An account of the Indian way of life. 108 pa­ges. 
Paper 1.95 
17. Secret of No Face, an lreok­wa Epic By Chief Everett Parker & O/edoska. An authentic Seneca tale never recorded before. Lavish color illus­trations & sketches by Indi­an artists. Glossary of Sene­ca words. 174 pages. Clo1h 6.95; paper 3.95 

• ORDER BY NUMBER ONLY. t (P250C550) 2 (P300C600) 3 (P250C550) 4 (P l95C495) 5 (P395C695) 6 (P395C695) 7 (P250C550) 8 (P200C500) 9 (P l50C450) 10 (P l75C475) 11 (P325C625) 12 (P250C550) 13A (P l50) 13B (P l50) 13C (Pl50) 
13D (P250) l3E (P l50) 13F (P l50) 13G (P250) 13H (/ 300) 14 (Pl50) 15A (P350) 15B (P350) 15C (P350) 16 (f-195) 17 (P395C695) 
I would like __ additional copies of No. 
Postage prepaid only when cash, check or money order accom­panies order. 
NAM E 
0 I am enclosing full remittance, send my book(s) prepaid.
0 Bi 11 me. You may add 50¢ hand­ling for I to 3 books + I 0¢ each for four or more books. 
Mail to: Indian Books, Native American Publishing Company, 
P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, Cali­fornia, 9505 1. 
ADD RESS 

CITY ____________STATE ___ZIP CODE _____ 

At Wounded Knee .. 










