
Not just another Indian book . .. 

a GENUINE legend. 
Told in the true fashion of a Hageotah (story teller), The Secret of No Face has never been recorded before. It's a tale of Utgo (evil) and Orenda (the power for good) and provides a unique glimpse of Iroquois culture and tradition. 
Written by an actual Seneca Pine Tree Chief and his life-long friend Oledoska, the volume includes full color illustrations and sketches. It will fascinate both young and old readers. 
Cloth Edition $6.95, Paperback $3.95 
••This is a delightful and illuminating Seneca folk tale." 


-LIBRARY JOURNAL 
··it is a sincere effort to communicate a 
• genuine Seneca leg­end or •telling'." 


INDIAN VOICE 


IND/AN VOICE 



A SPECIAL ISSUE OF THE LEGISLATIVE REVIEW 
As a special project sponsored by the Impact Survey Team under the coordination of the National Congress of American Indians, the Legislative ·Review, Vol. 2, No. 1, is devoted entirely to a comprehen­sive look at the occupation of the BIA building that took place in November, 1972, an event having a far-reaching effect on the entire Indian community. 
This unique issue is the result of a cooperative effort of the American Indian Press Association (AIP A), the Institute for the Development of Indian Law (IDIL), and Indian Legal Information Development Service 

(I-LIDS). 

Articles in the issue include: •In the Caravan's Wake-An Unstable Status Quo •A Chronology of Events •7 Days in November-A Photo Essay •For the Record •The Judicial Proceedings •Perspective­Bureaucracy of Indian Affairs 
To order your copy of this special issue, clip and mail the order blank below along with your check or money order for $2.00 per copy. 
Indian Legal Information Development Service (I-LIDS) 1785 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W. Suite 112 Washington, D.C. 20036 
Name Address________________Zip___ _ _ No.of copies __Amount enclosed___Check_ Money order_ 

2 IND/AN VOICE 
ft INDIAN VOICE lf now on the air! 

. 
IND/AN WORLD NEWS 

. 
TRADITIONAL MUSIC 

. 
INTERVIEWS 


0 O O San Francisco Bay Area:) O O 
. KTAO fm 95 . 
los gatos, ca. 
san jose, ca. 
SUN. 9:30 pm to 9:45 
0 0 0 0 Phoenix Area O O O O 
. KD KB fm 92.5 ·. 
phoenix, ariz. 
FRI. 6:30 pm to 6:45 
. Narrated by Spotted Bull . 
ATTENTION SUBSCRIBERS 

Change of Address? Zip Code Correct? 
We can assure prompt delivery of your maga­zine if we show the correct address and ZIP Code on your mailing label. (Postal regula­
tions require us to file addresses according to ZIP CODE.) If you move, be sure to 
Fill out and mail to: 
IND/AN VOICE P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, California 95050. 



LAST JANUARY, WHEN NEVADA'S SENATOR BIBLE introduced S.24, "A Bill Gr 
consent and approval to the California Nevada Interstate Compact" he anu 
the desire that the 93rd Congress act upon the bill "at an early date.'"Jnd;xpr 
hopes that Congress v.·i/1 no! act upon S.24 without fi rst conducting a ~~ I Oftt 
investigation ofall the ramifications ofthe California-evada Interstate Co~ 
In his short statement on S.24, Senator Bible did not once mention Pyp Lake. Indeed, in the entire text of S.24 one will search in vain for any mention ~mid effect passage of the bill would have on Pyramid Lake or the people ofthe p : t Lake Indian Reservation. It is our feeling that Congressional approval of~id California-Nevada Interstate Compact would present a dire threat to the exi t of Pyramid Lake. 
At heart of the question is the issue of Indian water rights. The ort Paiutes claim both a moral and legal right to the water flows of the Truckee Ri r They need that water to maintain their desert lake because of Pyramid' hi evaporation rate and so they base their arguments on tribal economic , Indian water rights, and ecology. 
In 1972, the Pyramid Lake Task Force, conducted by the Department oft Interior, concluded that there was insufficient water "to satisfy all of the e i tin water demands and maintain Pyramid Lake at the same time. It was the feelin of the Task Force that water to be salvaged for Pyramid Lake should not be obtained by destruction of the existing economy of any part of the area, either municipaL recreational, or agricultural." 
The large amounts of Truckee water which has been diverted for munici L agricultural, industrial, and private uses, has already taken its toll of Pyramid Since I 905, the level of Pyramid Lake has dropped some 80 feet. To redivert t Truckee River or to increase the usage of its water will certainly doom what been called "the most beautiful desert lake in North America." 
It is becoming increasingly difficult to ascertain which side of the P ram Lake controversy·any official or politician is on. While he was campaigningfort governorship of Nevada, Mike O'Callaghan gave the impression that he ould support the position of the Pyramid Lake Indians. Less than one month aft r took the oath of office, Governor O'Callaghan signed the Compact. In 1969, t Secretary of the Interior Walter Hickel declared his opposition to the Compa because, he said, "it threatens the survival ofthe 107,000 acre Pyram•id Lake•• .and impinges upon the water rights of the Pyramid Lake Indians." Four month later Hickel agreed to a "compromise" that would drop the level of the lake a Imo t cent. 
As of now, the Paiute Indians of the Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation ha 
thc

the support of the Nixon Administration. In I 972, the Administratio~ ga Pyramid Lake issue "the highest priority" in the newly established Indian_ at Rights Office. In his State of the Union Message on Human Resource t~ President Nixon reiterated his position: "We have filed," he said, "a P~ setting suit in the Supreme Court to protect Indian water rights in Pyramid 
The fate of Pyramid Lake is in the hands of the Federal Courts and _Con 
Indian Voice invites anyone with kr1owledge about the California-
Interstate Compact to submit his views. We urge all those concerned abou ft 
future of Pyramid Lake to write their Congressman, Senators, the Secret~ry oh 
Interior, and President Nixon. The eventual outcome ofthis crisis is certain to 
implications in all future controversiecs• involving Indian water rights. 

if their honesty and
0 

vidence arned about,from tim e 
/have ro . h 
. seven or elg t years,
during . h 
associating wlth some t ree 
d d thousand of these 0ur 1iun r~ a/most infinite variety /i , under a s. and under all these 
iance , d. 
J exposure, no In wn 
ices 01
,a, d me struck me a blow, or a ~hilling's worth of my 
,om me 
-GEORGE CATLIN 
fed!
March issue the short story 


In the 'Flying Eagle's Secret' was to Ruth Burke Hill. It should d· Ruth Burke Rill. We hope
-1 · f
uthoress accepts our apo og1es or cu able error. 
o er: . 
enne-Arapaho artist Alfred man, Jr.'s beautiful work was graphed ~o ~ Indian Voice by 
. Tarabm1.
·0 E 


IND/AN VOICE 3 

indian*
-
\IOICC 


*Though we are not Indians, The People have a variety of names for themselves. Among them: Human Beings, The Original People, Tobacco People, Keepers of the Fire, Corn People, etc. With this in mind, we will refer to Native People simply as Indians when convenient in the text. 
VOLUME Ill, No. 3 MAY 1973 
-~----TABLE OF CONTENTS _________, 
EDITORIAL 2 MAIL CALL .... . .... . ... . ................................... 4 THE TRAIL OF BROKEN TREATIES INDIAN PAPERS/ 
Leslie H. Whitten, Jr.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 THE FORTITUDE OF SILVER HEELS/ Denton R. Bedford .... 8 ASSIMILATE-OR STARVE!/ Joe Muskrat ................ . .. 11 THE GODFATHER SAYS NO/ Marlon Brando ................ 12 Part 1: OMANI LAKOTA/ Tahca Ska ..................... .. .. 14 NATIVE AMERICAN ART/ Duffy Wilson .......... . .......... . 15 SHORT STORY: BRONZE MY SKIN, DARK MY EYES/ 
Richard G. Green . ....................................... 18 WIGWAM EVENINGS/ Charles and Elaine Eastman ........... 21 POETRY / Anita Endrezze . ................................... 27 AROUND INDIAN COUNTRY ................................ 32 
AMERICA N INDI AN PRESS ASSOCIATION 
"' * *
1 E AMERICAN PUBLISHING COMPANY S1dent n Eastman, Dakota 

rd of Directors ard G . 
reen, Oneida e Blacksmith, Lakota ot ansen, Acoma e Stubbs, Dakota Yan, Abenaki an Ch· 
1 
'. PPewa 
Millard, Quechan 

-----·--------Editors Fern Eastman, Dakota Richard Green, Oneida 


________ St= ---------­
Robert Meigs, Choctaw-Cherokee Nyles Ryan, Chippewa-Abenaki Ken Ryan, Abenaki Jean Mclean, Lakota Archie Blacksmith, Lakota Ann Hansen, Acoma Oneoda, Chippewa Carole Stubbs, Dakota 
John Kaahanui, Dakota-Cherokee 
Indian Vu ice, the a ll-Indian newsmagazine © copyrighted ( 1973) by Native American Publishing Company, a non-profit organization. It will endeavor to present an authentic glimpse of all aspects of ative life, past and present, written from the Indian viewpoint. No pa rt of it may be reprinted without permission. Editorial offices are located at 90 S. 2nd St., San Jose, Ca. 95113. However, a ll cor­respondence must be addressed to: P.O. Box 2033. Santa Clara, Ca. 95051. Manuscripts and art materials are welcome but no respon­sibility can be assumed for unsolicited materials. Names of characters in short sto ries and poetry are fictitious. Writers and photographers should query. Indian Vuict' is published monthly except July and August with second class postage paid at San Jose, Ca. Single copy price is 75 cents. Subscription rates are: $7.50 for one year, $15.00 for two years and $22.00 for three years. Foreign and Canadian subscribers must add $1.00 per year for additional handling expenses. Printed in U.S.A. by union printers. 



To the Editor: 
As an Anglo and teacher, I am perplexed 
b'y F.H.B.'s article (March 1973) 'Educa­
tional Genocide'. Is there anything a trained 
Anglo teacher can do to help the Indian 
child, or is the government official saying 
that Anglos can never be successful teachers 
of Indians? 

If that is the case, what alternatives are there? F.H.B. seemed to say, "Anglo go home. Leave the Indian alone." He closed the door to brotherhood. How can the Anglo learn to be a good teacher of Indians if Indians refuse him by sending him .. . "back to mainstream WASP society?" 
I would hope that Indian Voice will con­tinue to emphasize articles on education and present more articles on the customs of the Indian. Anglo teachers need the edu­cation as much as the admonition. 
G EORGES. BROWN 

West Hartford, Connecticut 
Anything the Anglo teacher can do is learn Indian customs, as you suggest, and then tr;, to stress them as much as Anglo values. FRB didn't really just say, "Anglo go home." He said stay home if you want to brain­
wash the Indian child and alienate him from his native culture. 
FHB isn't a government official (our mis­take), but he is an official ofone ofthe few Indian orientated schools. He is also an Anglo and is frustrated in seeing the typical teacher come to the reservation school and try to proselytize the Indian child into Anglo society or try to make a fickle stab at re­lating to the child's culture. What he real­izes is that it takes a lifetime of learning to be a Navajo or a Sioux just as it takes a lifetime of learning to be German, Chinese or Spanish. 
The most successful Anglo teachers spent their early years on a reservation and in effect, learned to be Indian while they learned to be Anglo. While this is, under­standably, an impractical solution, the workable alternative would be Anglo teach­ers trained to teach Indians. This alterna­tive is almost non-existent today. 
Dear Editors: 
I am immortal and wish to accept the apology of the mortal Wm. H. Branden­burg (Mail Call April 1973) for being white. May he drop dead and come back another color if he can get back. Such flagrant dis­respect to the Power of the One Radiant Life Stream could only come back to him from "his bread cast upon the water" as misery and shortsightedness. 
How can he understand the American Indian when he does not understand his own species as a culture-and culture is the only difference in his and the Indian species to me. And what is there to under­stand about it? Wouldn't enjoying the mys­tery of the difference by seeing what is "to see" be more rewarding? 
I have a saying that has served me well 
with all peoples: "I work and build on what I have in common with all things and peo­ple; I learn from things and people that are different." 
A hypothesis for both Mr. Brandenburg 
and the readers of Indian Voice:"The Ameri­can Indian cultural rebel today is trying to fight the American 'Anglo' culture with ways and means he has learned from the Anglo." 
Can he ever go native better than the na­tive? The Anglo tried this in Vietnam, did he not? 
As the first Queen Elizabeth said, "I am 
mere English." I want to say I am mere 
American-it is sufficient. 
MARIA FURBY 
Mesa, Arizona 

• * * 

Dear Friends: Thank you for taking the f your thoughts with me. •me 
While I do_ not subscribe to t of confrontation and violence Id that the recent incident at W~u has dra_matized the fact that the concerns of the American Indian 
been neglected by the Federal go and overlooked by the American It unde~score~ the need to devote ful cons1d~rat10n to the legitimate of the Indian community. 
As a man who grew up on Reservation and who fought 
hard the Chairmanship of the Senate fairs Subcommittee, I plan to hold of hearings on this very question. that these hearings will lead to duction of major legislation to many injustices inherent in Federal-Indian relationship. 
During a frontier war more than ago, a Sioux Chief wrote: 
"It seems to me that there is way than this. When people 
trouble, it is better for both 
come together without arms and 
over and find some peaceful 
settle it." 
I hope that I will be able to con that end. We all must try. 
JAMES 
United States Senator South Dakota 
Trouble is, Mr. Abourezk, together without arms and ha ing for over 400 years. language will bring quicker 
resia 

Comments in the form of lette 
. ct· re
come. Indian Vo ice e (tors to edit material submitted. your letter to: Mail Call, P. Santa Clara, CA 9505 l. 


IND/AN VOICE 5 
. H. Whitten Jr., ~nv~stigative ai1e Prize _ wmnzng columnist
,uJ,1• .. # er d h . 


IO Anderson, presente dt ,zsd~ccoun_t arrest ofhimselfan in zan actl­.1 Collins and Hank Adams on 
n, a Sb .
JI before the House ~ commzttee Jndian Affairs in Washington, D. C. 
. 
ve been principal assistant to Jack
1 
on for the past three and a half Our interest in the Indian papers ·fromthe Bureau of Indian Affairs only after we heard about their al in media reports last 
ber. Jmmediately, we began to try to get to them. Wedo not want to reveal made contact with the Indians, one night at home in early Decem­1received a call from an Indian who me that the Indians had decided to public the tale of the Broken papers through our column, if 
willing and eager, and the day I flew to Phoenix where, after elaborate if dubious 
'ty precautions, I met with three . They said they were the com­through which I was to be given to the documents. 
~rious meetings in a motel room, king ~ot, a car and a bowling alley, questioned me about how best we tthe information into the public 
of course, that the Jack on column was not only the best ·-~bu~ th~ only way to get the story ~l distributed as it should be, if pardon that bit of sales­
agreed that this Was the course nt~d to take, reserving the right ook of the information in the ~~d rr.haps a movie from the 
nd1
an camera crews had ng the occupation. 
result of . . 
1flew . our meetmgs m to with two of the IndianIn/ northern city and met with ians. There, I was shown a 

small sheaf of BIA papers -copies, I believe -and agreed to write them up into stories as a sort of test. 
The Indians left me alone in my motel for some 12 hours with only one call from them. I had almost given up hope that they would return, when an Indian emissary brought in thousands of documents, mostly copies. With the aid of other Indians, and while an Indian guard sat against the door inside, we winnowed them down to a few hundred pages. Even many of these were useless, as it turned out. And what we did get needed to be supplemented by public records and documents from the BIA still in their possesion and from other sources. But it was basically this initial batch that led to our December stories which told of the century of disgraceful actions against the Indians. 

The Indians' relationship to the Broken Treaties documents was quite clear. At that time, their main concern was getting the documents copied so that the various tribes concerned with them could study them and learn from them. Then the documents were to be given back to the government. 
The Indians gave our column this message for President Nixon: "Tell the President that Indians do not want the documents any longer than it takes to duplicate and index them so that every tribe in America can educate itself to the double-dealing of the federal government and find ways to forestall it." 
I want to emphasize that at all times the Indians' aim was to get the papers back to the government. Their first notion was that they could somehow copy those thousands of pounds of papers. When they saw the hopelessness of that they wanted to use them as leverage to get talks going with the gov­ernment. When this became im­practical, they wanted to get them back with the mere hope -the conditionless hope -that the White House would recommence talks. And it was at this last stage, when the documents were about to begin to come in without any strings attached that the Administration ir­rationally moved in and arrested me ­and Hank Adams, the very man most committed to their return. 
Now Adams, on December 11, 1972, the day that we printed our first story with the message to President Nixon, personally turned over. a collection of material stolen from the BIA to FBI Special Agent Dennis Hyten. I submit for the record a copy of the receipt for that material. It included a dictaphone, some drawings and various other items. 
Adams has already sent other material back to the FBI, and had written President Nixon personally 
(Over) 
IND/AN VOICE 

telling him of his desire to protect the papers. He had also made public state­ments about his desire to get the paperes back into government hands. There was never any doubt about his aims. 
By January 11, however, he had dropped the plan to try to get the papers duplicated before returning them. There were simply too many problems. The In­dians who had custody over them, as I had found out from my own efforts, were reluctant to produce them. Also, the cost of copying them would have been enormous. Then, there was the In­dians' well-justified fear of the FBI, and of local police. Finally, although we do not know any exact sites, we had been told the papers were in at least eight ma­jor and numerous other minor caches from the far west to the east and in Canada. This was a major geographical problem. 
In any case, on January 11 , Adams had a press conference in which he an­nounced that he was going to get the papers back without the qualification that they would be copied. The story carried a four column head in the New York Times saying "An Indian Leader Pledges Return of U.S. Property." Surely, someone in this Admini­stration, in the Justice Department, read the Times that day. 
Adams' date for all or most ofthem to be in government hands was February 
15. At the same time, we too, were trying to get access to the rest ofthe caches. We were in touch with many Indians around the country. These telephone contracts were futile in terms of getting us a look at more documents. 
Meanwhile, unknown to Adams, the 

FBI had an informant planted among 
his colleagues. Based on the false in­
formation quoted by the FBI and Jus­
tice Department that he was providing, 
he was not a good informant. But he was 
an informant. He was one Johnny 
Arellano, a Metropolitan policeman. 
On January 18, a Harry Reasoner 

film crew from ABC was in Hank 
Adams' apartment. Adams told the TV 

cameras that "we ... know" the papers 
were going to be returned "in a short 
period of time." As the camera panned, 
it picked up the FBI plant listening to 
Adams' statement. 
And here is the crux of the govern­
ment's duplicity: if Arellano reported 
back to his FBI bosses that Adams was 
getting the papers back, then why did 
they later arrest Adams as he returned 
the papers? If Arellano did not give the 
FBI this vital information about 
Adams' intentions, then he was an in­competant -and why does the Admin­istration continue to quote him as the 


AIPA Newsphoto 

Hank Adams ... arrested 
source of professionalism and honesty, most recently in a Federal Court hearing a week ago before Judge John Sicica? 
It is this kind of total duplicity in criminal matters that makes the case a classic one of secret police action, fostered and carried out under the direc­tion of the executive powers -a sort of curtainraiser for Fascism. 
To return to my narrative, Adams was somehow succesful in getting the first big batch ofdocuments sent East on January 30, 1973. On that day three big cartons arrived from South Dakota at the bus station. It was the FBI plant who picked them up. Had he not been interested mainly in setting up Adams, and, apparently, us, he might have dropped them off at FBI headquarters. Instead he took them back to Adams' apartment. 
Adams called me that evening and I hoped to get a look at the papers before he turned them over to the Bureau ofIn­dian Affairs. But next morning, he again called to say he had looked them over, and they were useless for news stories. They consisted of old land and legal records and the like, vital to have at the BIA where they could be consulted by the tribes, but dated as news. 
I therefore persuaded him to let us do an exclusive story on their return ... something like "Hank Adams, much derided by the White House, has secretly returned the largest stash ever to the government of the Broken Treaties papers." 
It was a story that was never to be written. 
. I offered to take Ada m my ~ellow Vega. Hesar: portation. As it turned out underc~ver man. At his a, thre_e giant cartons sat Whll~ Adams, running late00 
dressing, I browsed throu From what I could see was right. They were ' 
0
.. 1 f ot
matena : or example
, 0 ne 
was a volume of the U S . At that time, also, Ada· ms Creedon, a House A 
. . p
Comm1ttee mvestigator t from an off~ce at the third BIA on ~nd1an complaints. 
an appomtment with C 
a.m. that_morning. He told was runnmg late and was on did not tell Creedon that he have Broken Treaties d him, though I'm sure both wish now he had. 
Adams and I wrote the nis Hyten, the agent who nating the return of the d the top of the boxes. After bolically returned them to was Hyten to whom they turned over, Adams knew. 
Adams' transportation show up so we took the ho car. And it was then t swarmed by FBI men. my notes from my hands cover this new wrinkle in handcuffed me. As one co civil rights zeal of the FBI cuffed my white wrists in fl and Adams' Indian wrists him, at considerably more 
We were hauled off to 
quarters, fingerprinted, · 
and then thrown into the 
the federal courthouse for 
without being allowed bail 
were charged with pos 
documents and the man w 
complaint -the cruel c · 
still rankles us -was S 
Dennis Hyten, the very maa 
Adams' contact for ret 
papers. Is it any surprise that 
mistrust the FBI? 
Next day, the FBI co themselves with the honest Adams was on the way to! and here is the shocking t Administration went on to months of telephone t~ Adams, Jack Anderson 
They knew that they bad face even then, but ~he~ mined to conduct th~•;n 
formation on Adams 
and on our news Sources. 
IND/AN VOICE 7 
dmitting right then they d of :hey put us throug_h two wrong,. nd anxiety, while we 
f Pain a h
o 1·n prison and the ar­
y~n d .
ten . nee of a gran Jury
expene 
nee. rand jury threw out the
th
e gagainst us and the Jus­
d case
te nt belatedly dropped the partme overnment tried to justify · The;y claiming they confis­1e rds because their inform­the ~:c;wledge that we h~d been ~~ 'llegally with the Indians for
,ring i b k .
ths before the rea -m. 
•111f"a lie, which the prosecutor If has privately conceded to me he not believe. The government ~as .ed to show that we bought or m­tn to buy the papers,. another flat .. We paid out nothmg but some el tickets, a car rental, hotel and ill and the like to try to get the or copies of them. The govern-t nows they have no evidence ~f u ing of papers, yet has pulled this tattered garment over the naked-
of a case that could have been taken the movie "Z" about the Greek dic­hip. Is there any wonder that the n are skeptical of eve1:ything this ·ni tration has to say? 

Iha e detailed this case to show that mishandling of Indian affairs is not to the BIA which has been for a jackstraw heap of confusion. BI,Justice Department and White now have little sensibility toward Indians. The Broken Treaties papers that the same is true at Agricul­lnterior, Small Business, Health, tion and Welfare .. . indeed, 
ou bout the federal government. bing must be done. 
If here is any good that came out of Bl acking and its shabby police ftermath, or out of Wounded it i the national recognition that cderal g?vernment actually has no regarding Indians and that the In­themselves are too fragmented to 
draw one up. H~use and Senate committees in­W•th Indians, while themselves wayed from one session to the contradictory forces neverthe­
a ' 

measure of distance from the Iftho da~ Indian problem. ere 1s any h h . 
· ope t at the old Indian 
can be · 
an h exammed, and from II th~~est,P0 1icy drawn up to deal 
11.k ndians, urban and reserva­
e the · · · 
lllenof n It ~s m Congress. It is 0 d go~dw11I that will probably 
o the Job. 
~LESL~HITTEN, JR. 
• :
•
•
•
:
•
•
•
:
•
•
•

: SUBSCRIPTION : 
One-year gift subscription to : 
indian lloicc 
* Canada and other countries add $1.00 for postage. 
To: IND/AN VOICE, P.O. BOX 2033, SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 
•
•
•
•
• 

• FOR A :
•
•
•

FRIEND... :
•
•
•

AGI FT :
•
•
• 


.• .·-: .
.... .
• 

• -
______ip__
.• 

. PLEASE ENTER MY OWN SUBSCRIPTION, ALSO. 
• 

I am enclosing a check or money order for $ _ _ for___subscriptions. 
. 1 sub. 7 • 50 . 2 subs.15.00 . 3 subs.22 .oo My name is_______---;--:----.....,.,....-----------­
(please prmt) 

Address, ______________________ City___________State_________ip_____ 

. year gift to_ ______...,_ Address---------1-• 
City__ ___ _ _____,._ State _ _ ____ 
. .• 
• 
8 IND/AN VOICE 
-Of'\•• 
-
-
-----1/ 
-. 
,, ~ 
IND/AN VOICE 9 
American Indian had qualities of greatness which 1'be t be denied. Belated knowledge of the courage, no heroism, and self-sacrifice of our Indian ancestors .e,dling pride among today's Indian. Those aekiDhed apostates who tried to ~lip unnotic~d _into t~e 

• t white society are now sheepishly procla1mmg their Indian ancestry. And there will be more lost souls ~as the truth about the Indian's long and epic fight 
· homeland becomes better known. IDJDples of Indian greatness are legion, for he was a man aqniticent dedication who could rise to the heights at 
ts of crisis. Nor did he ever whine about the tming odds against him. In this respect, fortitude of 
wnce chief named Mo-nak-wa-nee or Silver Heels is tative. His tenacity can be an inspiration to any And why not Indian heroes in American history? 

Heels was a member of an illustrious Shawnee , bis older brother was the great Cornstalk, the tribal chief. Born in 1724, he w_as four years younger than his famous brother. There was also a younger sister known whites as the Grenadier Squaw. This attractive clan was a chief, probably the Peace Woman of that among ths Shawnees. It is possible the Shawnees her Say-ma-ka-ne-kee-kwai-wah, or Soldier because of her white man's name; but this was not true name. That designation the Shawnees kept to -llefves. In January of 1786 at Fort Finney, she dictated a 
vocabulary to Major E. Denny, thereby giving him lllllure of fame he should have shared with her. Ccwnstalk and Silver Heels were presumably of the 
~k~la (Assiwikale or Sewickley) tribal division, . it 1s possible they may have been Tshilikawthee the). These were the two divisions in which the tbieftaincy was hereditary. However, the Kispocatha h's band) division was closely affiliated with the WCkela and Cornstalk was a close friend of the 
fh family. Evidence points toward the head chief ~ the Hathawekelas. Thus Silver Heels and the fivr Squaw were of the same division. 

thi e ancient Shawnee divisions were sub-divided into ~Y-~our gens (patrilineal clans) of approximately ~~-ninety closely related persons who regarded the S~s descended from a special totemic ancestor. t awnees customarily named their children ac-
o gen d · · 
Dal c s esign_at~ons-and less frequently according ..... _ _haractenstics or the events in one's life-the 
-umpti · 
or Co~n is that_ Cornstalk belonged to the Taumee · r S n gens, smce the name of Silver Heels or the .. 9uaw Were Shawnee in origin. 
..ns 1dent·r · · 
h 1 ication 1s strengthened by the fact that as been identified with an earlier Shawnee chief 

A factual account of a Shawnee leader's courage and faith in Indian medicine. 
known as Tamenebuck and called "Taming Buck" by the 
whites. This is an error because Cornstalk was too youthful during the period of 1739-1748 when Temenebuck was a leading chief. Cornstalk would have been only nineteen to twenty-eight years old and Shawnee chiefs had to be at least thirty years of age. The conclusion one has to draw from this identification of Cornstalk with Tamenebuck is that they were son and father. One can readily recognize the Shawnee word for "Corn" (Tami) in the first half of Tamenebuck's name. This would strengthen the belief Cornstalk and Silver Heels were of the Taumee gens. 
However, the principal war chief of the Shawnees-and Cornstalk served as both war chisf and civil chief-was selected customarily from the Sipaysee (Panther) gens. Exceptions were made where a man of outstanding ability arose in another gens. At least the family affiliations of the Cornstalk family have been narrowed to these two lineages, one prominent-the Sipaysee-and the other relatively obscure-the Taumee. The name ofCornstalk and his father point to the latter group, but the prominence ofthe son in the highest tribal office would indicate the dominant Sipayee. 
In the year 1774, when Mo-nak-wa-nee or Silver Heels would have to demonstrate his extraordinary courage, he was living along the central Scioto River-the Thyoto ofthe Shawnees-in modern Pickaway County, Ohio. There were two tribal villages on opposite sides of the mouth of Scippo Cr.eek, where it flowed from the east into the main river. These Indian towns were some seven miles below present Circleville. The village on the upper bank was known as the Grenadier Squaw's Town and that on the opposite bank as Cornstalk's Town. The latter settlement was larger and more important. In 1777, the Americans murdered Cornstalk, his son Ellinipsico, a handsome young chief Red Hawk, and two Shawnee pipe-men, who had come in peace but were seized as hostages. Thereafter the Grenadier Squaw Town rose in importance. Of course, the Shawnee we-gi-was (cabins) extended some distance up the creek and along the river. There were also other tribal towns along the Scioto. Eighty or more wigwams existed in the two towns; and since the Shawnees averaged four children, five to six hundred tribesmen populated the immediate region. 
In 1774, Silver Heels was a matured man of about fifty years. He was also a member of a family of sturdy fullblood stock which was representative of the prideful spirit of the old Shawnees. But there was turmoil in the family and tribe because ofthe aggressive and provocative attitude offrontier whites. Laboring under deep resentment of his own abused tribesmen, Cornstalk had difficulty keeping his tribe neutral in the growing conflict between colonists and the mother 
(Over) 
10 IND/AN VOICE 

country. The colonists were constantly mistreating the In­dians. 
This was a trying time for Ohio tribes because the invading white frontiersmen were determined to possess Indian lands. Although clearly in violation of all treaties, these arrogant and lawless land grabbers invariably set up a lament about being the "injured" party whenever Indians challenged their wanton aggression and hurled them back upon the frontier. Indians had no rights under the white man's law, so trouble was certain to follow. 
At such moments of crisis, a favorite frontier tactic was to foment an Indian war by murdering friendly Indians. The white propaganda machine has always noisily whined that Indian chiefs could not control their "wild" young men. Ac­tually the truth was the reverse. The white government seldom or never controlled the genocidal frontier riffraff knowing it could murder Indians with impunity because no white jury or magistrate would convict its members. 
In this instance, terror would fall upon the family of a friendly Mingo (Cayuga) chief named Logan or Tah-gah­jute (Spying Eyes). This family group had been camped at the mouth of Yellow Creek, near present Steubenville, Ohio. Unfortunately, Pennsylvania and Virginia were engaged in a power struggle for possession of Pittsburgh and adjacent regions. Dr. John Connolly, agent for Virginia in this dis­puted area, was a jingoist and rabble-rouser. Furthermore, he was anti-Indian with a vitriolic hostility though the In­dians had done nothing to him personally. Seeking to strengthen his shaky position in Pennsylvania, he sent an in­flammatory letter to George Rogers Clark and Captain Michael Cresap, trader, farmer, and land-grabber. These men were at Wheeling. The communication charged the Shawnees were "ill disposed" toward the white people, presumably because they had ejected white squatters from their treaty-guaranteed lands. This letter of April 24 or 25 was deliberately addressed to the Indian haters at Wheeling in the hope they would use it to provoke war. This was exac­tly what happened. A hasty council was called-of the drum-head variety-in which practically all of Indian traders attended along with the frontier rabble. Taking foreign policy into their own hands, these irresponsible and lawless frontiersmen unilaterally declared war on all In­dians. 
Cresap, the ringleader, wasted no time in striking at the unsuspecting Indians. That night, a friendly Shawnee and a friendly Delaware, employed as canoesmen by a trader named Stephens, were murdered on the river. The two startled Indians were brutally killed and scalped before the approving eyes of Cresap's gangsters. Their scalps were dis­played in triumph at Fort Henry and Wheeling. His ego in­flated by these easy murders, Cresap now boasted he would kill all the Indians along the frontier, including Chief Logan's family of friendly Mingos. 
Meanwhile, on April 26, he learned that fourteen Shawnee chiefs, had been called to a conference at Fort Pitt by Thomas McKee of the Indian Department. They had stopped on their homeward journey at his new plantation to barter for supplies. Hastening to Grave Creek, Cresap succeeded in surprising these peaceful Shawnees and murdering one of their number. The startled chiefs were forced to abandon their canoes which were filled with puc­chases made at Pittsburgh. This booty was seized by Cresap's men. The enthusiasm for a fight quickly vanished when thirteen Shawnee survivors rallied and quickly killed a white man. Vastly outnumbered however, the disenchanted Shawnees were forced to retreat westward to the nearr;st Dela ware towns on the Muskingum. The 
b. . re they

great 1tterness agamst the perfidious whit their property. es Who Immediately following this act of tr h demanded a "resolution" from the lawealc e 
· · h' ess

authonzmg 1m to attack the camp of friendl 
In a highly emotional atmosphere this " y C 
. . ' resol

pa~sed and an assortment of m1htants marche Mmgo camp. But en route, doubt filled the' d. knew Logan's f~mily hud not harmed any~od merely engaged m the peaceful pursuit of hun f began to break away from the expedition homeward. Presently Cresap was left alone an~ force, his frustrations and hatred. There was except to return toward Wheeling. n 
But the fr~endly Mingo b~nd had not earned 
1

Across the nver from them hved a white man n who had the unenviable reputation ofbeingan peddler. This man lived on friendly terms witho Indians for a number of years, but now the stirred by Cresap reached his ears. He and a ro Greathouse, . along with a number of other In conspired to murder Logan's family. Their plan w no loss of their own blood. 
On May 3, 1774, the Indians were invited tocr f~ra "friendly'~ turkey shoot. Facts are unclear, b n~ne _or ten Mmgos cro~se~ the river in response v1tat10n. Baker had a v1llamous reputation for rum to Indians, and he proceeded to live up to it three Indian men intoxicated. (Five ofthe Indians four were women, and one was an infant half-bl months.) Two Mingo men refused to drink. It was when Indians drank certain men remained so fights and maintain order. 
One of these two sober Indians was John younger brother of Chief Logan. Unable to pen two Mingos to become helplessly drunk, Greathouse stooped to another perfidy. They s Indians begin the turkey shoot by firing their guns moment the Indians' rifles were empty, the ma In the bloody terror which followed, nine M" murdered, including Chief Logan's aged m younger brother John Petty, his sister-who John Gibson, later to become a colonel in the Army-and several collateral relatives. The • strapped in its cradleboard against its mot managed to escape the bullet which killed its mot the massacre, Chief Logan was in the western wo the Muskingum, searching for his family. 
Word of this gross atrocity disturbed the s class of white men of the day, but they were no sacrifice racial unity in the interest ofjustice. Th murderers went unpunished. This had become when Indians were victims of white criminals. A must extract his own measure ofjustice, Chief Lo Mingo tribe into a declaration of war against tiersmen. It was in this way that Silver Heels ofthe became involved. 
There were a number of fur traders under Ric at Shawnee towns along the Scioto and Mad Ri fur traders participated in both the Wheeling and the subsequent murders, Chief Logan de deaths of those fur traders still among the S substantial element in the Shawnee tribe sup 
IND/AN VOICE 11 

A revealing report on a practiced government policy concerning Indians. 
. . te or starve! This has been . ffered the American Indian -:;nant societ~, a choice ba~ed fundamental m1sunder~tan_dmg . their needs, and asp1rat10ns. whYt'oday he is the poorest o~ the _ poorer than the Amen~an poorer than the Appalachian Worse than the Indian's physical is his psychological poverty is manifest by an astounding rate 
• "de fratricide, patricide, incest, aba~donment, and alcoholism. 
American Indian population is ·representing only one-fourth of I t of the total population. 

r, contrary to myth, Indians are YIJlishing. Actually they represent fastest growing minority group in United States. 
When it has not been genocidal, the · ·onal approach to the American has been to seek his assimilation the larger society, an attitude based feelings of cultural superiority. The 
• cy of the Indian culture and the of its differences from the white · tion have not been considered. . · the European, the Indian is a bal person who has neither 
apericnced life in a peasant-social nor moved into a post-peasant 
American immigrants, who came the same cultural roots, were much susceptible to the evolutionary of the peasant-urban continuum bad little ·difficulty in becoming . ~ghly urban. While they did not:::~e, American immigrants have integrated into the new society 
or · ' 

ganized on an ethnic basis and Joltrs~d thei_r economic and political • • 0 achieve a workable relation­
lad'!Jth other groups. ~~s ?iffer from whites on their 
~ ~ife in general. They are a · Dornt kmd of man, not individualis­. life ~ompeti~ive in fulfilling his role bis' ft a tnbal person conditioned cu ture to play a cooperative role. 
He seeks, at almost all cost, to conform to the complex interpersonal relation­ships and social mores by which his group is maintained. His attitude and behavior toward individuals and insti­tutions outside his tribe are generally determined by concern for preserving the cohesion, identify, and autonomy of the Indian community. 
This unyielding determination to maintain the group conditions the In­dian's relationship and attitude toward the institutions of America. Among white citizens the State is supported because of its ability to protect in­dividual rights and assets while keeping the door open to social mobility. To an Indian, white institutions are worthy of acceptance, contact, and cooperation only to the extent that they protect group rights and assets. When an element or institution threatens the social relationship between the Indian and his group, he withdraws. The degree of his cultural obstinancy is as­toundingly high. This, to an Indian, is the right way to live. 
The tribe, group, or band to which the Indian belongs lacks traditional formal organization and recognized leadership, yet it is still a viable social organism, res­ponsive to social and economic pres­sure, and subject to change. In dealing with outsiders, Indians spend much time assuring the fair representation of their component groups both in decision­making and in obtaining and dis­tributing benefits. 
In dealing with other tribes as in the past, or with the Government or private interests as in the present, the group is designed to convince, communicate, and seek autonomous and yet inter­dependent relationships rather than to assimilate or to act as a pressure group or power bloc. This type of group-to­group political communication permits the Indian to keep his precarious identi­ty. It proves to be, however, a distinct handicap in his ability to participate ef­fectivelv with the white societv in which a power bloc seems much more eff ec­tive. 
The attempt to establish a symbiotic relationship is frustrating to Indian and white alike. The Indian cannot understand the reasons for white behavior anymore than the white can understand the Indian's. Both must coexist, but the Indian is at a distinct disadvantage because coexistence means using white institutions and the white man's rules. 
Tribal peoples assimilate into an urban society only under very unusual conditions and the stronger the pres­sures to do so, the greater the degree of withdrawal from the dominant society. The pressure to assimilate acts as a threat to the Indian's identity as an In­dian. Today's American Indian is a living example of the failure of these pressures. 
While he has not assimilated, he has not developed either. The only alternative has been existence as a living anachronism in a deplorable poverty. The Indian lives in the worst housing, has the poorest health, and is unable to give his children anything but the most meager education. He lives on generally poor land, and this economic base is decreasing as a result of governmental policies and continuous victimization by private speculators. 
From the Indian's point of view the problem is that the economic benefits of society are offered only in exchange for his assimilation. It is an all or nothing proposition. Development on Indian terms using the resources ofthe Federal Government is prohibited because the Government refuses to relinguish its control to the Indians. Every time the Indian discovers a resource worth developing, it is taken away from him. He is, once again, faced with the choice -assimilate or starve. The subtlety of this choice can be illustrated by the policy of two States -Washington and 
(See Page 24) 



12 IND/AN VOICE 
"' 
""' " !+'-~• 
-


Brando's refusal to accept his Oscar for the title ~1he Godfather' was delivered, in part, by Miss Littlefeather at the 45th Annual Academy . n in Santa Monica. With deepest respect for his 
. h . if h.
1' us 0 effort, we prmt t e entire context o zs 
t~vening. What is said here on my behalf by Miss ther is not in any way designed to demean or those who believe in the worthiness of this custom this evening possible. It has not been my wish to or diminish the importance of those who are ting here tonight. I would hope that those who are 

• would not look upon this as a rude intrusion, but as --1 effort to focus attention ~n an issue that m~ght 
well determine whether or not this country has the nght from this point forward we believe in the inalienable of all people to remain free and independent on land 
supported their life beyond living memory. 
two hundred years we have said to the Indian people are fighting for their land, their life, their families, and right to be free, lay down your arms, my friends, and we will reason together. Only if you lay down your arms 

• meet and talk of peace and come to an agreement will be good for you. When they laid down their arms, -•-..red them. We lied to them. We cheated them out of lands. We starved them into signing fraudulent 
ts that we called treaties which we never kept. We them into beggars on a continent that gave them life long as life can remember. by any interpretation of history, however twisted, we do right. We were not lawful nor were we just in what 
But then, we do not have to restore these people, we 
baye to live up to those agreements, because it is given "1,vutue of our power to attack the rights of others, to lbeir ~roperty, to take their lives when they are trying to 
their land and liberty, and to make their virtues a and our own vices a virtue. _there is one thing which is beyond the reach of this 

-•-•v. and that is the tremendous verdict ofhistory. And ~ surely jduge us. But do we care? What kind of ~oph~enia is it that allows us to shout at the top of ODal voice for all the world to hear that we live up to 
IND/AN VOICE 13 

Marlon Brando rejects Hollywood's most coveted prize. 
our commitments when every page of history and when all the thirsty, starving, humiliating days and nights of the last hundred years in the lives of the American Indians contradicts that voice. It would seem that the respect for principle and the love of ones neighbor has become disfunctional in this country of ours, and that all we have done, all that we have succeeded in accomplishing with out power is simply annihilating the hopes of the newborn countries in this-world, as well as friends and enemies alike, that we are not humane, and that we do not live up to our agreements. 
"Perhaps at this moment you are saying to yourself, what the hell has all this got to do with the Academy A wards? Why is this woman standing up here ruining our evening; invading our lives with things that don't concern us and that we don't care about? Wasting our time and money and intruding in our homes. I think the answer to those unspoken questions is that the motion picture community has been as responsible as any for degrading the Indian and making a mockery ofhis character. Describing him as savage, hostile, and evil. 
"It's hard enough for children to grow up in this world. When Indian children watch television, and when they see their race depicted as they are in films, their minds become injured in ways we can never know. Recently there has been a few faltering steps to correct that situation, but too faltering and too few. So I, as a citizen of the United States and member in this profession, do not feel that I can accept an award here tonight. I think awards in this country at this time, for whatever reason, are inappropriate to be received or given until the condition of the American Indian is drastically altered. If we are not our brothers keeper, at least let us not be his executioner. I would have been here tonight to speak to your directly, but I thought that perhaps I could be of better use if I went to Wounded Knee to help forestall, in whatever way I can, the establishment of a peace which would be as dishonorable as long as the rivers shall run and the grass shall grow. 
"Thank you for your kindness and your courtesy to Miss 
Littlefeather. Thank you, and goodnight." 
-MARLON BRANDO 



14 INDIAN VOICE 
The Lakota way of life before their confinement on reservations by the Ame 
MI HUNKAPI, (my relatives, for we are speaking here principally to the Oyate Lakota, the Lakota children and adults, but also to all Indian People) the first thing that we must understand in order to feel ourselves in the Way of Life of the Lakota People, is the unity and interelationship of all things. With some other peoples (the Euro-Americans, for example) life, and their way of viewing it is carefully placed in compartments. There is the practical, material world, the world of religion, the world of personal relationships, the world of amusement etc. and very little connection is seen or allowed between these compartments. The Lakota, however, feel that these compartments are false and at best, artificial. They conceal the truth which is that all things, and all feelings and acts in our lives are one. In order to understand the world, and life as a Lakota does, it is first necessary to gain a feeling for this. 
In The Lakota Way, every act is a communication with, and expresses a sacred relation to, The Spiritual Force ofthe universe, Wakantanka. A Lakota man puts on his moc­casins, goes out and kills a buffalo, returns to his tipi and eats, just as modern men put on shoes, go to the store, bring back meat to their house and eat. But for the Lakota his moc­casins, the buffalo, the tipi are not merely practical elements for pursuing his life. They are all sacred things which bring him closer to Wakantanka. The moccasin is made of animal skin and therefore makes a connection between him and that animal, just as an animal skin wrapped around a sacred ob­ject combines the power of the animal with that ofthe sacred object and renders both to the owner. The shape ofthe moc­casin comes from the leaf of the sacred Cottonwood tree which reaches straight from Earth to Sky making the connection between those holy beings, and is the tree from which the sacred Sun Pole is made. 
The buffalo represents all of the four-legged peoples, and the killing and eating of it makes us one with all of them. It also represents Tatanka, Chief of the Buffalo People, and in its flesh lies His power. 
The tipi is not only a home, it also represents the whole universe. The circle on the ground is the Earth with the fire in the center representing the Paha Sapa (Black Hills) which are the center of the world. The door, the Catku (honor seat) opposite the door, and the placing of skin beds on the sides represent the four directions. The vault of the cone is the Sky, and the tie rope in the center represents Wakantanka who holds all things together. 
But the important thing to remember is that the Lakota is constantly aware of all of these things and more as he moves through his life every day. For him, religion is not an abstrac­tion which he muses on one day a week and then forgets it for the rest of the week. His life is his religion, and his religion is his life! There is no difference. It is all a constant interplay between different facets of the same reality. 
Before there was anything there was Wakan after there is nothing there will be Wakantanka saying the same thing, for while the parts may disappear, the whole is eternal. All of the elemen call "beings" or "things" are elements ofWakanta He is many and infinite. And yet because all things are parts of the same being, Wakantanka is One. Both of these are true at the same time. Wa thus everything we have known, and yet he is not · or anyone shall ever really know. The more wet this, the more we can see the meaning of it. 
This is why He is called Wakantanka. In Lako means "mysterious", "holy", "sacred", "not of All of these meanings at once. Tanka means"huge "big". Now all beings and things contain a spirit spirit is Wakan. Indeed anything which is mysterious or unnatural is Wakan. But the grea that is wakan is The Master Force ofthe Universe, that Wakan-Tanka, or "The Great Wakan­because all wakan spirits are merely elements of the largest wakan being and therefore Wakan-11 further, becuase the mystery of His infinity and more Wakan than anything, he is Wakan-Tanka. 
Wakantanka made everything round and so ro sacred, and the sacred symbol is the circle. _First He world round and when we are on the prairie where­tanka meant for us to live it is easy to see this. The rolling, but if you go to a rise in the ground youcan clearly that the rim of the world is round. Or, ifyou Paha Sapa (Black Hills), at the center of thew climb to the highest peak you can see even more it is indeed round. (In the cities ofthe Ameri~ans difficult to ascertain due to the buildings and many Holy Men of the Lakota have said that in one becomes alienated from himself and his people he cannot see the work and symbols of Wakanta him.) 
But on the prairie, when you look up from the Sky, you will see that the Sky too is round, as are the the Moon. Ifyou cut through the trunk ofa C~tton you will see the perfect star in the middle which sacred, but also that like all other trunks of all P round. Or if you cut through the limb of a four­two-legged, you will see that the bones are round. 
In their lives and in the things they make~be People have tried to imitate the sacred way that_ made the world. The tipi is round. The camp circ e The Initi (Sweat Lodge) is round. Indeed, everyo tipi is placed in a manner to represent Wakanta. world, as well as the placement of all the lodges U1 
(See 
IND/AN VOICE 15 




This months native artist hails from the League of the Ho-de-nau-sah-ne. He is Tuscarora Duffy Wilson or Se­gwoi-dou-kwe and lives at 1642 Upper Mountain Road, Lewiston, New York. 
Recently Mr. Wilson won $2,500 first prize money at the first annual Indian Sculpture Show held at the Heard Museum in Phoenix, Arizona. His seven-and-a-half­inch-high by 12 inches wide steatite work preserves the 
(Over) 

Du~y Wilson 
legendary "To-do-da-ho," a sculpture with snakes in his head and seven cricks in his back. Wilson's creation beat out 37 contestants from throughout North America. 
Apart from the excellent craftsmanship estimated by judges, sculptor Harry Jackson of Wyoming, and western artist, Ernest Berke, the finished product was si'gnificant for the mood and symbolism entailed. For To-do-dah-ho was the lone figure which once stood between the Peace Leader and the formation of The League of the Iroquois. Much medicine power rested within him, and many of the Onondagua Sachems stemmed from him. 
Of the work Ernest Berke commented, "There is no question. The minute we looked at it, that was it. It is a magnificent piece that transcends size. It transcends all of the usual limitations that put on certain things as being great creations." 
Heard Museum dignataries announced that the sculpture will become a permanent exhibit there. Although Se-gwoi-dou-kwe's work is now displayed by the Interior Arts and Crafts Board in Washington, 

D.C.; American Indian Art Center in New York Ci and the Oxendine Gallery in New York City as well numerous museums and private collections, this w~ t first time he had ever entered a competition. He behe that with the growing popularity in Indian crafts, peop will become more and more cognizant of Indian poten­tial in sculpture. 
Most of Duffy's medium is sculpture, and it re~ . Iroquois cosmology like legends in stone; clanshtp 111 symbols; figures of falseface society, eagles a prophecy legends and flying heads and miniat~re · work is symbolically true. The Tuscaora likewise d artifacts in wood and cornhusk. . 
Mr. Wilson was born at Tuscarora Reservation March 28 1925 is married and has five children.. eldest son' is following in his footsteps. by also/~:an stone carving. Together, they hope to stimulate \ the creativity of highest quality in sculpture and keep 1 growing dynamic thing that it has become. ade 
For interested readers, Duffy Wilson's custom-i;to articles are priced at his discretion and range from$ $1,000. 


IND/AN VOICE 17 


18 IND/AN VO!CE 


Among the Mohawks, Morning Star's name fit snug as a moccasin. Her skin shone with the richness of cured tobacco; eyes were obsidian torches ofwonder. Her parents, who were progressives, sought to give her every advantage and after she finished the elementary grades of the reservation school, they personally drove her fifteen miles to high school in the city. It was impossible to deny the white man's world and they wanted her prepared to cope with it. 
Morning Star completed her studies with honors and qualified for a scholarship. She learned the white man's reli­gion, was encouraged to attend as many social functions as possible and succesfully eluded the many who wooed her. Yet with all her newly acquired knowledge she remained troubled, unfulfilled. She didn't want to hurt her parents' feelings, especially her mother's, so she never revealed the doubts that festered within her. Her mother would boast at family gatherings: "Morning Star is the first one of us to receive the whiteman's college diploma." And all the elders politely nodded their approval making her mother swell with pride. Only grandfather, last hereditary royaner of the Mohawks, read the truth in her eyes. 
Trouble was Morning Star herself couldn't pinpoint the dilemma that kept her in a constant state of flux. When she went into the woods with friends to retrieve medicinal herbs she felt silly. After all, she was educated and not once during all those years of schooling had any instructor ever taken her into the woods looking for roots and ferns. Besides, she wasn't very good at it. All the other girls instinctively knew where to look but Morning Star seemed only capable of fin­ding strawberries and hickory nuts. Those were the most plentiful of the Creator's gifts and the easiest to find. There just wasn't anything on the reservation that interested her anymore. 
So at twenty-two she decided to get married. It wasn't dif­ficult; she had many suitors among the bashful young men of the tribe. With her mother's help she settled on a handsome young lacrosse player named Titus Henhawk and left a loaf of cornbread on his doorstep. 
Tie, as he preferred to be called, bristled with masculinity; his bronze body glistened with vitality during their frequent moonlight swims down at the river. Everybody said: "They make such a handsome couple the Creator will bless them with many little ones." And sooner than most expected, the Creator did bless them and wedding preparations were has­tily arranged. Which led to a slight crisis. 
Tie's uncle was a Mohawk medicine man and the Henhawk family assumed he'd perform a Longhouse ceremony in the ancient way but Morning Star's parents said no. Introduced to Christianity by their daughter, they had become devout Pentecosts and began looking upon the old ways as pagan shortly after receiving Christ. So in order to 
A short story. An Indian g, faced with a cultural decis 

save the situation Morning Star was forced into 
one of the things she learned in school. p 
"But, Tie," she purred one moonlit evening. "lt'sn don't respect your uncle or even the old ways. It's j well, what about the baby? The white man considers less child a bastard you know." a 
"Don't be silly," Tie snapped. "You know there's thing as an illegitimate child among our people father and I'll punch anybody in the nose who-;, 
"That won't be enough, Tie. If we don't have a wedding we won't be legally married. And if we're not married, the white man -" 
"The white man! the white man! is that all you about, how to please the white man?" 
"Now, Tie, think of the baby; think of your son. not legally married he won't be entitled to your name inheritance." 
"Inheritance?" 
"When you become a great lacrosse player and of money, things like inheritance will become very im to him. You don't want everything you've worked for away from your own flesh and blood and turned over tribe, do you?" 
Tie was silent. He wasn't materialistically inc· Morning Star definitely had a point. She had exp11 fidence in him and watched his pupils dilate with interpreted as visions offame. "But it will be a great to my Uncle," he protested. 
Morning Star quickly replied: "Well then, we'll ceremonies. One in the Longhouse and another Pentecostal Church. That should make everybody And she lured him into her arms and melted his res with the glow of her eyes. 
But her solution was over-simplified. When they before Tie's uncle and told of their plan he said: "If married in the Indian way there is no reason for ditional ceremonies. The white man thinks scra signature to a piece of paper makes .it the truth. great falsehood. Truth can only come from a pure Simultaneously with the word heart he tapped a clen to his breast causing his medicine pouch to slip outJ~ V-neck of his shirt. "But there is a problem here, be tinued. "Titus has told me that you are four mon child. Is this so?" . 
Morning Star nodded and a pang ofChristian guilt within her. Raising her eyes she blurted: "We lo other· we're getting married out of love -not n 
Tie\ Uncle looked at Morning Star. His eyes we~ as a hawk's. but his furrowed face remained serene. 

20 IND/AN VO/t;E 
be ashamed," he said. "It is not within me to judge you. This 
thing is between you and the Creator." 
"What is the problem you spoke of, Uncle?" 

The old man turned toward Tie, and his eyes narrowed. 
"Do not tell me that you too have forgotten our ways?" 
Tie's face blanched as though he were guilty as charged. "Forgive me, Uncle," he said after a short pause. "I did forget, but now I remember. Our Grandmother the Moon will not permit our marriage at this time." 
"Why?" Morning Star asked. 
The medicine man looked at the girl with understanding. "Grandmother Moon has much spiritual power," he began. "She and she alone controls the tides ofthe great waters. It is her job to remind Earth-Mother to observe the four seasons and prepare for them. She also counsels the feathered and four-legged ones in their duties, exerting her influence so that they remain on their intended paths. Just as she does all these things, once a month she reminds women they are blessed with the power to bear chiidren. Because of this, women are closer to Grandmother Moon than men. But she also recognizes that during this time a woman's spiritual power may be disturbed. That is why a woman is better left alone during that time. Now that you are pregnant your spiritual power is diminished. Portions of it are being diverted to the one you now carry in your belly. The uniting of two people into one in marriage demands all of the power within you. There can be no discrepancies. Therefore, until you are again of one mind you cannot be married in the old way." 
At first, Morning Star felt hurt at being rejected. In her whole life she knew of no other occasion that things hadn't worked out to her benefit. Slowly, the hurt turned into anger until finally she said stifly, "Then I guess we'll have to get married in the white man's way." To this, she expected a threat from the old one and in that event she was fully versed in the Christian doctrine: she'd tell him the error of his pagan ways. 
Instead, the old man's face remained expressionless. In a 
resonant tone he said, "I do not envy your position in this 
matter and I will pray to the Great Spirit to guide your path. 
This is a time of great decision on your part and I urge you to 
go into the woods and be receptive to the signs Earth­
Mother will send you." 
"What kind of signs can I expect?" Morning Star asked. 

"This I do not know. Nobody but the Great Spirit knows 
how to reach you, but I promise you this. When you feel 
good in your heart, remember the thing that communicated 
fhe feeling to you and I will try to interpret it. I can see you 
have been away from the old way a long time and this might 
be necessary. I have nothing more to tell you at this time." 
So to appease Tie and his Uncle, Morning Star agreed to 
go into the woods. Her grandfather suggested she abandon 
her white man's clothes for this sojourn and at first she 
pouted. She had grown increasingly fond of lacy, feminine 
things; she knew they enhanced her beauty. Those old, 
maladorous animal skins made her plain as the other 
maidens and they were awfully heavy. She changed into a 
buckskin dress and moccasins but draped her favorite white 
shawl over her shoulders. She explained to grandfather, "I 
need it to keep warm," and she departed. 
She didn't expect to be in the wilderness very long and 
instead of gathering firewood, she used the shawl as a sack to 
carry berries she picked along the way. When darkness sifted 
its way among the tree trunks, Morning Star realized her 
error; a fire should have been given top priority. It had been 
ten years since she had slept outside, and now, huddled against the trunk of a pine, she began slipping i to grip. A thousand wilderness shounds became an scattered sparkles of stars pierced openings ofb:!ct the branches above her. 
Suddenly, the wind gusted and the forest came moaning, bending sounds. Pine cones pelted the..,•••­around her and one grazed her cheek. It was as if been scr~tched by a gia11;t, invisib_le finger. Brancbea flapped like great eagle wings sending a flurry of p· to pepper her head. A twig snapped and she._ luminous eyes. She remembered her grandfatben that al! animals were friends ?f the Indian, but her came m short snatch~s "Yh1le ~he anxiously 'WI.,...__ green eyes take turns bhnking. Finally the wind stop as if by signal, the eyes disappeared into the shadowa. should've come here, she thought. It was stupid of going to leave as soon as the sun rises. 
When she awoke, she realized her task wouldn't as she imagined. Because of her attention to beny she hadn't marked her trail and couldn't recoanile• landmark. Bewildered, she considered her p Now let's see, she remembered. When we grandfather used to tell us to walk to the tallest p·.,._ 
""After you do that," he used to say, "walk to the next if you don't repeat a tree you'll find your way o forest." She glanced toward the nearest pine tree timated its height. In an instant she began dodlffll ...-• ties and threading her way between hemlock sap 
Arching its way through puffs ofcumulus the sun descent. Morning Star stopped several times to throbbing feet and to remove burdocks from her hair shawl. 
During the depression, the reservation had been into two mile squares by a government road project was amazed that she hadn't located one of them. certain she'd walked more than two miles. She irritation in her parched throat as she approacW another pine tree and then, to her dismay, she Exhausted, she fell to her knees, cupped her 11111--­scooped rust-colored pine needles into a ma fluffed the shawl into a pillow and tears silently down her cheeks. Slumping beneath the tree wheal spent the previous night, she fell asleep. 
It was late afternoon when an overpowering urae she was being watched. Before opening her eyes, thoughts of Tie fogged her brain and when she vinced he had found her, she opened them. Slowly, • up and rubbed her eyes in disbelief. A great herd of pletely surrounded her, their oversized ears t · . vague rhythms with the chewing oftheir jaws. Every shape was represented and several fawns stood Oil legs, almost falling when they bent to munch clumpsc! A huge stag raised his head displaying an eight-~ sharp as a cluster of knives. He looked at Mol'IIIII thrust his breast outward in a gesture of supre!DICJ, strutted away. . 
A medium-sized doe came forward, her beniP, eyes questioning but unafraid. As she approac~ted···.-­Star began trembling. In desperation, sheL~~ W branch low enough to climb, but three deer oam11•. Moving still closer, the doe's eyes penetrated Mo:7"',___ soul as though trying to establish some sort O. _._ communication. Morning Star's heart pounded~ ..., to feel faint. Her belly growled, making the doe prick and intensify her stare. (See 

Tenth Evening. 
by Charles and Elaine Eastman 
other story of Unktomee, grandfather!" cry several of the 
Tell us anoon as they are inside the old story-teller's wigwam on the 
ass 

heven!°ttought you would ask for another!" remarks the old man ~' ti·sfaction "There are many stories of his dealings with the 
quiet sa · · h
He loves to go among them and even to take theirs ape,
le

Ipeop · · '. 11 f
make fools of them the more easily. This may do very we or 
he may f h . d 'E hI' " 
but it is generally not long be ore e 1s rea y to cry noug . 
midsummer, and the Elk 
were feasting in great numb~rs 
the slopes of the mountain. 
fat and handsome, they 
d hither and thither off the 
plings and rich grass, dra~k 
from the clear mountain 
m, and lay down to rest at their 

in the green shade through the t of the day. nktomee, who had been travel­[ rand was hungry and foot-sore, cd upon them with envy. 
h," he said to himself, "That is 
life for me! Surely these are the 
people on earth, for they 
all things in abundance and are 
t of foot that they need fear no 

ccordingly, he hid his bow and rfull of arrows in a hollow tree, hall of his clothing and other wea­
o that he might appear quite cd and harmless before the timid people. They saw that he was un­
and they stood still as he ap­

Here comes Unktomee" said they btfully to one anothe/ 
brothers!" he pleaded with 
rou have enough; you are at 
ith the tribes; you overlook the 
and all its dwellers are below 

you! None is so happy as you. Will you not make me one of you?" 
"Friend!" exclaimed their leader, "you do not know what you ask! To be sure, it is now midsummer; our cloth­ing and our weapons are new, there is food in plenty, and we may seem to be happy. However, our antlers, our only weapons, are yet soft, and the Wolf and the Wild Cat are ready and fear­less to attack us. Our only hope of es­cape is in our fleetness, since we are watcned all day by the cruel eyes of those who live upon flesh, of whom the most dangerous of all is Man!" 
"I know all this," replied U nktomee. "Others may have stronger weapons than you, but I see none with your beauty, your stately height, your freedom and ease of life. I beg of you to allow me to share it!" 
"Ifyou can pass the test, we will ad­mit you," they said at last. "Notice our eyes -we must be ever watchful; our ears -they are constantly on guard! Can you smell an enemy even against the wind? Can you detect his footfall before he is near?" 
Unktomee passed the test and was finally admitted to the company ofthe Elks; in fact, he was made the chief of them all, for such he wanted to be. 
IND/AN VOICE 21 

"Now," they said, "we have made you our leader. You must guide us so that we shall be safe from the hunters!" 
Proud of his long limbs and of his stately antlers, he led them down the hill, running back now and then to urge the hindermost ones into line. When they stopped to rest, he lay down a little apart from the others, un der a spreading oak. 
Suddenly they all sprang up and fled, for Unktomee had cried out to them: 
"Fly! fly! I am struck by an arrow!" 
But when no hunter appeared, they were provoked, and grumbled among themselves: 
"Unktomee is decieving us; it was only a stick that fell from the tree!" 
Then they all lay down a second time, and a second time the Elks were aroused in vain. They were still more displeased, and said to one another; 
"It was only an acorn that fell upon him while he slept!" 
A third time they lay down, but this time the Elks stole away from Unktomee and left him sleeping, for they had scented the hunter. When the hunter came, therefore, he found only the chief Elk still sleeping, and he let fly an arrow and wounded him severely. 
Unktomee was now in great fear and pain, and he bitterly regretted that he had become an Elk, for he had learned that their way of life is full of anxiety. The Elks had taught him that it is well to be content with our own, for there is no life that is free from hardship and danger. 
~ 


22 IND/AN VOICE 
THE FORTITUDE OF SILVER HEELS 
(Continued from page 10) 

particularly relatives of the two murdered Shawnees. But 
Chief Cornstalk disagreed with these angry people. He 
reminded them traders came to Shawnee towns under safe 
conduct guaranteed by the tribe. He told his warriors it did 
not matter that the Americans were men without 
honor-the Shawnees were. He explained patiently that all 
his sympathies were with the outraged Logan, but he, tor 
one, could not sacrifice justice in the interest of racial umty. 
He did not know his own honor would bring him death at the 
hands of these same treacherous white men. 

But the degree of bitterness was mounting within the tribe to a point where Cornstalk doubted it could be contain~d. He saw a need to swiftly remove the fur traders from Indian country. At this critical moment, the traders were engaged in theirtraffic at the Canoe Bottom ofthe Hockhocking Creek. Cornstalk sent his own brother Silver Heels and four warriors to immediately bring the traders to Cornstalk's Town. Convening alarmed traders <:1t the council house, Cornstalk dictated a letter to colonial authorities at Pittsburgh. He explained that he had restrained the families of two murdered Shawnees from retaliating upon the whites, that he and his tribe were endeavoring to maintain peace, but he wanted clarification ofthe Americans position toward the Indians. Tone of his communication, dictated to Richard Butler, was friendly and conciliatory despite serious provocations on the part of the white men. 
The traders were herded eastward along two hundred and fifty miles of Indian trails from the Scioto through Delaware country to Pittsburgh. Silver Heels, who led an ac­companying deputation of Shawnees, arrived safely at Fort Pitt on June 16, 1774. Instantly Richard Butler appeared before Dr. Connolly to request protection to the Delaware country for the faithful Shawnee delegation during their return. Connolly, in a surly and belligerent mood, flatly refused. Worried by the implications of such an attitude, Butler returned a few days later, on June 19, to meet again with Connolly and to offer him Cornstalk's letter as an as­surance of Shawnee good faith. But Connolly stubbornly refused to hear him. Instead, he ordered forty Virginia militiamen to seize and arrest the five Shawnee delegates. This, in effect, was a death warrant. 
Alarmed over consequences of such deliberate treachery, Butler hastened back to George Croghan's trading house, where the Shawnees were staying. There he led the Indians to their canoes while the militiamen surrounded the house. Still unaware of the ingratitude and treachery of the whites, Silver Heels and his companions leisurely paddled down the Ohio toward the mouth of Beaver Creek. Butler had been afraid to warn the Indians of Connolly's duplicity. Ifhe had, a tragedy would have been avoided. 
When Virginia's representative learned that the small Shawnee delegation ~escaped, he flew into a rage and dis­patched forty militiamen to overtake the Indians and kill them. It was not difficult to overhaul the Shawnees because they suspected no deceit. Accordingly, the Birginia~s c?uld ambush the Shawnees at Beaver Creek near the mam river. Fortunately, only one shot found its mark, though it did in­flict a serious chest wound in the leader of the delegation, Silver Heels. He suffered a gaping wound in his breast. 
Having done their damage, the militiamen, fearing other Indians were nearby, suddenly succumbed to an unac­countable panic and fled homeward. White people at Fort Pitt later charged they "rari off in a most dastardly manner." 
At least the Shawnees now had proof ofthe~ . 
the white borderer. 1a1 
A sober group of Shawnee warriors s 
1

their two dugouts below the Beaver to ko e~ 
critically wounded leader. They stretched hii:nee 
stare questioningly into his pain-filled eyes E 0 i 
warriors was silently thinking ofthe two hu~d acd 
miles which separated them from their res • 
· Clo

M oreover, the serious nature of the wound t 
doubt that life could be sustained over suchoi 
tance. They dared not linger where they were~ 
men might fire on them. · 
"What can we do for you?" Red Hawk th 

young chief gravely asked of his fallen chi~f e 
"Take_me home,'_' Silver Heels answered th~ougb 

teeth stamed by crimson froth from his lung inj 
"Can you withstand the hardship oftravel?" Red 

quired. "I am still a Shawnee," Silver Heels answered W~en the wounded_man ~ade an ~ttempt to * 
warriors gently restramed him, explaming he must 
his ebbing strength. Hastily assembling a 
constructed of poles and blankets, they turned their 
the west and gently carried Silver Heels away. 
The nearest Indian settlement was the Moravian 

Schoenbrunn on the Tuscarawas, below the p 
New Philadelphia. I~ was ei~hty miles away, 
Shawnees headed for 1t as confidently as if it were 
the hill. They reached this Christian Indian town in 
jogging into the outskirts on June 22, 1774. They w 
a Moravian missionary named John Heckewe 
openly expressed his disbelief that Silver Heels s 
an ordeal. Particularly at the age of fifty. The seve · 
wound appalled the missionary. In amazament, be 
"This man (Silver Heels), when I saw him, had 
travelled eighty miles with a wound from which bl 
kind of watery froth issued every time he breath• 
The missionary had no ability to heal such a wound. He feared the responsibility of Silver Heels' his presence. But knowledge of the poor behavior of his own race induced him to inquire: "Do you shall recover?" 
Silver Heels stared a steel-like resolution through eyes. This grim determination stood in marked co the apprehensive attitude of Christian Indians unaware these same frontiersmen would massacre Gnadenhuetten in the year 1782. Speaking with ficulty because of blood filling his mouth, Silver answered awed the missionary. 
"If I can reach Wakatomica,'' he grimly promi~ recover. There are several excellent Indian med there. I am confident my Medicine Helper (Guard: shall hold my spirit inside my broken body until there." 
Heckewelder made no reply. He knew Waka~o fifty miles downstream on the Muskingum Ri present Coshocton. (This village was not the sec?nd Wakatomica on the headwaters of the Mad River, County, Ohio, where the Shawnees later migra people were Mequachake Shawnees-m~n not~ medicine powers.) But the missionary beheved ~ would be dead long before he reached his des 
Immediately thereafter, the worried Sha eir bearers, their legs somewhat rested, resumed th 
ard the southwest. This was the last time mis­
. g ~wkewelder would see Silver Heels in this con­T~e Shawnees expl3:ined . they arrived ~t . a one hundred and thirty miles from where their ,tatoin;~;en shot, at midday ofJune 24. Their leg muscles er had they were exhausted but they maintained their door of the most prominent Mequachake man in town. When they turned their patient over 
~:~ethey made the simple request that he save Silver_ 

see~sli!~~rtunate history has not p~eserved the ~ame o~ ~his It as udicine man, for he saved Silver Heel's hfe. Wntmg 
. . H k ld 1 , .

old Indian practlt10ners, ec ewe er ater said: in the cure of external wounds that they (Jld_ee l~rly excel. Not only their professional men and ,-rucu but every warrior is more or less acquainted with the 
Olen, f d 1 h' h . . 

be81i properties o roots an pants, w 1c 1s, ma manner, -~nsable to them, as they are ~o often in danger of bein_g ded in their engagements with the enemy. Hence this u~'h of knowledge is c~rried to a grea~ degree of perfectio~ ~ ng them. I firmly believe that there 1s no wound, unless 1t 11D uld be absolutely ~.ortal, or _beyond the sk_ill of our own good p~actf,tioners, which an Indian surgeon will not succeed 
ia beahng.
White people have held Indian medicine men in contempt without ever trying to understand the necessary service he performed for an Indian community. They ridicule the inging and drumming medicine men, use without realizing t shrewd native psychologists these old powaws were. Theyrefuse to admit that the singing could and did claim the ttention of the ebbing spirit of the patient, encouraging it; ortounderstand that the haunting throbs of the drum could dy a faltering life-force by co-ordinating its rhythmic pulsation to the beat of the drum. Whether these methods rked for white people is beside the point. The fact remains that it was the Indian life style and he responded to it. His &re-force anticipated such a procedure and reacted vorably. This was in the very fiber of his environment and culture. Furthermore, the proof lies in its success. Silver 

IND/AN VOICE 23 

Heels was so recovered by August-the Po-kah-maw-wee Kisthwaw or Plum Moon of the Shawnees-that he was slowly walking around Cornstalk's Town on Scippo Creek. 
Of course, the white man did not cease his aggression until he had stripped the Indian of the entire continent. Disillusioned by unceasing white atrocities, Cornstalk con­fronted a Virginian army of 1100 men with about 900 warriors in the great Battle of Point Pleasant-on October 10, 1774. Silver Heels is believed to have fought beside his brother in this confrontation which saw the father of Tecumseh killed while defending the Shawnee homeland. The whites claimed the victory, but the Indians had so bloodied them that they gave grudging respect to the prowess ofthe Indian warrior. It is not known whether Silver Heels killed a foe, though 140 Virginians were slain or wounded by the embattled braves. Silver Heels was probably content merely to have survived the fight. 
Afterward, he disappeared from the pages of history for a decade but years later, John Heckewelder met the chief again at Detroit. He declared, "Silver Heels was in sound health and had grown corpulent." Nine years passed before there was a second meeting. In 1793, at the same town, when the old chief was sixty-nine years old, he dined with the mis­sionary. Heckewelder always remembered the ghastly wound. Nineteen more years of life served as testimonials to the skill of the old Mequachake medicine man and the deep resolve of Silver Heels to live. 
But the name Silver Heels did not die with the prominent old Shawnee leader. A descendant of the same name among the Lewistown Shawnees signed the Treaty ofSeptember 29, 1817. And the ninth signer of the amended Treaty of May 10, 1854, was yet another Silver Heels. Finally, the unratified Fort Smith Treaty of September 13, 1865, had a Moses Silver Heel as its third signer. Perhaps a good name never dies. 
Nor shall American Indians perish so long as they main­tain pride of race and a love for their old culture and lifeway. This is the adhesive which binds them together. Indians will survive as Indians or not at all. 
-DENTON R. BEDFORD 
Bibliography 

1. Alford, T. Wildcat: Civilization, Norman, Okla., 1936 . 
.2. Downes, R. C.: Council Fires of the Upper Ohio, Pittsburgh, Pa., 1940. 
3. 
Drake, S. G.: Indians ofNorth America, Boston, Mass. 1834. ' 

4. 
Hanna, Charles: The Wilderness Trail, 2 vols., New York, 1910. 


5. Heckewelder, John: History, Manners, and Customs of the Indian Nations Who Once Inhabited Pennsylvania and the Neighbouring States, Revised. Philadelphia, Pa., 1876. 
6. 
Hodge, F. W.: Handbook ofAmerican Indians, 2 vols., Washington, D. C., 1912. 

7. 
Kappler, C. J.: Indian Laws and Treaties, 2 vols., Washington, D. C., 1904. 


8. Memoirs ofthe Historical Society ofPennsylvania, 186­
0. See vol. 7, appendix 2, pp. 481-485. 
9. Sawvel, F. B.: Logan the Mingo, Boston, Mass., 1921. 
10. Schoolcraft, H. R.: Indian Tribes ofthe United States, vol. 2, pp. 470-481. 
l'l. Tucker, Glenn: Tecumseh, Vision ofGlory, New York, 1956. 
12. Voegelin and Kinietz: Shawnee Traditions, Ann Arbor, 1939. 


24 INDIAN VOICE 
ASSIMILATE OR STARVE! 
(Continued from page 11) 
Wisconsin -and the judgments of the United States Supreme Court in two cases involving those policies. 
The Washington Case 

The genesis of the Washington case is the Treaty of Medicine Creek which dates back to December 26, 1854. For the signatory tribes this treaty provides that: 
The right of taking fish at all usual and accustomed grounds and stations is further secured to said Indians in com­mon with all citizens of the territory. 
The tribes ofthe northwest coast were primarily salmon fishermen .. In October of 1805 Lewis and Clark found the banks of the Columbia River almost continuously lined with Indian fish racks and bands of salmon fishermen. Only by preserving their fisheries and allowing them to choose their favorite valleys as a reservation was Territorial Governor Issac I. Stevens able to obtain the State of Washington from the In­dians. 
The Indians' "usual and accustomed 

grounds and stations" for fishing are 
called fishing stations. They are at the 
mouths of streams where the salmon 
begin to go upstream en masse, where 
the stream forms an eddy and the 
salmon stop to rest, a narrow spot where 
one can stretch a net across the river, 
spear fish, or use a dip net. There are 
hundreds of these fishing stations 
throughout the State. When the Indians 
were removed to their inland reserva­
tions, it was these very important fishing 
stations off the reservations that they 
sought to protect. 
Salmon to Indian fishermen was not 

simply a commercial item, but a gift of 
God. The river was a great table where 
all of God's children could sit and eat. 
The balance of nature to an Indian was a 
delicate one. It was an entire way of life 
in which some things were allowed, 
others were not. For example, the 
Quinault tribe held a great salmon feast 
with the coming of the first fish of the 
year. There was much celebration, some 
happy, some serious, for the occasion 
had a ritual significance crucial to the 
continuity of tribal life and ethos. 
Salmon also represented the eco­

nomic stability of the Indians. They 
were caught and preserved, consumed, 
and traded throughout the territory and 
far inland to the East. There were plenty 
of salmon for everyone. Even with the 
coming of the white man the salmon 
remained plentiful. The fishing stations 
were reserved to the tribes and, as far as 
fishing was concerned, everyone was relatively happy. It was the advent of salmon canning and the affluent society that caused problems. Salmon canning made salmon valuable to the white man as a commercial item and people had more leisure time to fish for fun. Thus were born the commercial and sports fishermen. 
Commercial fishermen, assisted by modern technology, ranged from the Bering Straits to California. Russia, Japan, and Canada joined in, and everyone began catching salmon in in­creasing numbers. The canneries were working overtime. Salmon became big business. 
Sportsmen began to increase as they, too, benefited from modern technology. Equipped with the latest rods, reels, clothing, boats, motors, and cars to take them to the fish, sportsmen stayed in hotels, motels, and boarding houses during the fishing season. It was es­timated that they spent between $30 to $40 for transportation, equipment, sup­plies, and lodging for every salmon they managed to catch. Salmon indeed meant big business. 

The canneries were buying all of the salmon they could get their hands on. Upstream where the Indians were waiting, there were fewer salmon than had been in the past years. The Indian's commercial fishing dated back to pre­history as did their method of catching them. Therefore, using the white man's modern nets, why not sell the fish to the white man? Nothing had really changed, but the method of catching fish was better and the market considerably im­proved. Salmon became big business for Indians, too. 
The white man had all but extermi­nated the salmon in California (Where some years earlier he had all but exterminated the Indian), and many streams along the northwest coast had been severely decimated. Strict regula­tion was required to save the salmon. 
Commercial fishermen on the high seas were regulated by treaties between the various countries involved and were governed by Washington State's laws when fishing on the high seas and land at a port in that State. Those fishing within its territorial waters and Puget Sound, including sports fishermen, are regu­lated by the State of Washington as to the times, manner, and places where they may fish. The Indians who were waiting upstream as they had for ages, but with new equi·p
ment
foun d themselves in th , 
. ewron. 
the wrong time, catching th -. The salmon controvee ~ new to the State of W rshiny
. . as
first ca_se i~volving Ind· 
reserv_ation fishing was d~ 
Washmgton Territorial Co 
year~ ~fter the signing of th!ti 
Medicme Creek. The courts of 
of Washington over they 
the Indi~ns fishing off th:ara 
were subJect to the same re 
anyone else. As more dema 
JUade for the salmon, the 
. . re 
grew more restnctive. 
In _1940 a case arose con quest10n of whether the Indiana off the reservation had to b 
. Th uy
1tcenses. e Supreme Court 
Sta!e of Washington reasoned 
Indians were subject to the 
regulations as anyone else they 
buy fishing licenses. The U.S. S 
Court reversed that decision 
the Indians' right to fish ~as a 
right and the State could not c 
Indians a fee for exercising 
1he Court then said that the 
-were subject to regulations 
"necessary" for the conservatioa fish. This latter ruling opened 
dora's box. 
The Federal courts in W adopted the theory that in ord "necessary" regulations had to dispensable". In other words, o the State had done all in its conserve the salmon by other could a conservation regulation posed on the Indians as "ne 
In the first case which came tbe Washington Supreme Court missed charges against a group dians because the State had not tbat the regulations under which dians were charged were "n The U.S. Supreme Court split 4 tbe appeal. Since the Supreme could not make up its mind, thed of the trial court was automati firmed. 
In 1963, the Washington S Court again considered the qu off -reservation Indian fishing. case, in a 7 to 1 decision, the CO~ that the Indians were subJ conservation regulations which "reasonable". 
The tegulation of Indian reservation fishing by the State met with enthusiasm by the I While the laws and regulations d equally to young and old, richaD black, white, and yellow, the~ have a treaty as the red men did. dition to the principle invol 
gmatic economic con­vefY Ptregulations applied to oil-If t e Id prohibit the Indians th~Y ~fs~ at their "usual and ac-catching ,, The commercial and 
Places. .
were catchmg so many fishe~~:fore they got to the In­salrn h t remained were needed thos_e t a urposes. Thus, the In­
wru~g p with highly efficient fishing in a position to 
gear were the salmon runs severely. The te . d that if the State wanted 
cJa1rne . Id b . 
rve the salmon, it shou e~m orts and commercial
the sP d. I
d leave the In ians a one. nh a; continued fishing off the .t e 1· 0 violation of the State 
~n . d 
·ons, the Indians wdereh ~rreste . the Indians rea t e1r treaty me rangers, they we~e ~rrested P The Indians kept fishmg, the .:angers kept arresting. Other who heard of the Indians' p~ight public statements sympathetic to goals -enforcement of their rights. But the Indian~ adopted a 
resistance techmque and it to suit their purpose-they -ins. 
Gregory, comedian and civil activist, attended a fish-in and · lly helped an Indian fisher­lift a salmon into a boat. He was arrested, tried, and given the um penalty under a statute en­to prevent poaching. The Gover­the State of Washington refused ute the sentence by even one 
Puyallup Tribe is one of the and least organized in the State hington. Its reservation consists &at one time it had included O!'thecity of Tacoma? and is used as a cemetery. The Puyallups engaged in extensive new fishing m from a State fish hatchery. te of Washington-contended hatchery fish runs were being 
Slate sued the Puyallups. Fishing ~yallups, who were weak and 
. d, was extensive and ~ primarily by one family. The the ~~nerally true of a second 
1'bc .isquallys, which was also -: 1sq~al_ly Tribe, at a height of
0 
dlthcult for whites to d, refused to answer the righcharge that they had no t~. However, 12 members ofin: f ?ad been arrested for P&>c:ration of State regulations and answered for 

The issue, as the State saw it, was ob­vious. Indians were seeking special privileges, privileges over and above those held by everyone else. It was in­vidious discrimination. In addition, there was also a very practical con­sideration: one of sovereignty and con­trol -for whoever controlled the streams, controlled the salmon, and salmon are big business. 
The Indians, on the other hand, viewed all of this with great confusion and frustration. Hadn't their ancestors fished commercially in these streams since time began, using the most ef­ficient means at their disposal? Hadn't the white man taken their lands through a treaty that was signed as a result of coercion, deceit, misrepresentation, bribery, and related chicanary? Hadn't they reserved unto themselves one benefit, minute in relation to what they had lost, the right to fish at their usual and accustomed places? 
The State ofWashington claimed that the issue was one of conservation ­charging that the Indians were fishing the streams, catching salmon as they 

swam upstream to spawn, and thus cat­ching the breeding stock and killing off all of the salmon. The Indians res­ponded that they had been fishing the streams for thousands ofyears and in all of that time had never been able to des-· troy the salmon; it was the white man who was destroying the salmon by polluting the streams with his paper mills and manufacturing plants which in turn poisoned the salmon; it was the white man who was building dams the salmon could not cross. They claimed that the white man was creating lakes in which the salmon would not spawn, that the fish caught by the white commercial and sports fishermen were just as much breeding stock as those caught by the In­dians, and that, above all, the white man was catching all of the fish before they got to the Indians. The issues were joined in fact, but not in law, as we shall 
soon see. 

The State asked the court for an order prohibiting Indians from fishing in violation of State regulations. The State alleged what to it was obvious: there are no Indian tribes any more. Oh, there was a group called the "Puyallup Tribe," but it was just a social club like the Italian Americans or something like that. Besides, Indians looked, dressed, talked, and acted like anyone else and, 
INDIAN VOICE 25 
therefore, you had no way oftelling who was an Indian and who was not. Before the coming ofthe whites, Indians had no title or rights to land, They were like animals roaming about the area and had no more rights than the animals, They were a conquered people who had nothing to give in consideration for retention of the right to fish. Since they had nothing to give in exchange there was no necessity to respect those promises even though they were called "treaties." The police power of the State authorizes it to conserve natural resources and from a standpoint of conservation the State of Washington had to control fishing in the streams. 
The court then issued a blanket in­junction permanently enjoining any and all Indian off-reservation fishing which was in violation ofState regulations. On appeal, the Supreme Court of the State of Washington took a somewhat different view of the controversy. Treaties of the United States, said the court, cannot be repudiated by the State of Washington or its courts. The United States could not be said to have been just "playing treaty" with the Indians. It was the United States and the whites of Washington territory who asked for and got the treaty, not the Indians. 
The court further found that it was 
not the province of the courts to 
determine the existence or non-non­
existence of Indian tribes. This was a 
matter within the exclusive jurisdiction 
of the Federal Government and ifit con­
tinued to recognize the tribe, so must the 
State of Washington. It also found that, 
Indians did have special fishing rights 
under the treaty, but those rights were 
not absolute. The State had clearly es­
tablished that the continuation of In­
dian fishing using modern methods 
would result iri serious decimation of 
salmon runs. 
Since the trial court had issued the blanket injunction its judgement was too broad and would have to be modified. The Indians' rights were sub­ject only to conservation measures "reasonable and necessary to preserve the fishery." The injunction would thus have to be tailored to the particular situation, enjoining a specific act or acts on the basis that they violated a "reasonable and necessary" conservation measure. The case was then sent back to the lower court. 
The Indians still had their treaty, or at least the remnants of it, and the State of Washington had some authority to regulate Indian fishing, at least in a 
(Over) 

26 IND/AN VOICE 
manner "reasonable and necessary to conserve the fishery," even if no one was sure what that meant. But to the In­dians, the remnant of a treaty was not enough. They appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court as did the State. That Court, speaking through Mr. Justice Douglas, handed down its decision on May 27, 1968. 
The Court assumed that originally the Indians had fished with nets and that there were commercial aspects to their fishing. While it stated that the Treaty of Medicine Creek could not be construed as giving the Indians no more rights than they would have had without the treaty, the Court found that the Indians' right was "in common with citizens of the territory"; and since they could be regulated, so could the Indians. The times and manner ofIndian fishing were not specified in the treaty. It was into this unspecified area that the State was allowed to enter. 
The Court held that the State could 

regulate the manner of fishing, the size 
of the take, restrict commercial fishing, 
and the like "provided the regulation 
meets appropriate standards and does 
not discriminate against the Indians." 
Whether or not the regulations in ques­
tion met the "appropriate standards" 
(were "reasonable and necessary") was 
not before the Court since the case had 
been remanded to the trial court by the 
Supreme Court of Washington, and the 
trial court had not, as yet, answered that 
question. Thus, there really wasn't 
anything for the U.S. Supreme Court to 
decide. 
The Court did, however, in a 

pregnant statement, say that "any 
ultimate findings on the conservation is­
sue must also cover the issue of equal 
protection implicit in the phrase 'in 
common with.' " With that, the Court 
affirmed the decision of the State 
supreme court, and, in its opinion, set­
tled once and for all the question of In­
dian fishing under the Treaty of 
Medicine Creek. 
The underlying problem in the fishing 

case was not conservation. However, 
the conservation argument of the State 
so overwhelmed the courts that they 
never dealty with the real issue -the 
allocation of a resource. 
Any type of regulation would be "reasonable and necessary to preserve the fisheries" if the State of Washington allows the commerical and sports fishermen to catch all of the fish before they reach the Indians, leaving only enough to spawn. It is possible that this type of regulation is what Mr. Justice Douglas sought to prevent when he said that the regulation, to be applicable to the Indians, must "not discriminate against the Indians" and that the regulation "must also cover the issue of equal protection implicit in the phrase 'in common with.' " 
Today, the situation in Washington has changed very little: the Indians are fishing and reading their treaty, and the State game rangers are arresting them whenever they can catch them. There have been threats (sometimes ac­companied by action) of violence on both sides. The State is armed as are some of the Indian fishermen, and it looks to some like the beginnings of another Indian war. 
The Wisconsin Case 
On the same day the U.S. Supreme Court handed down the decision in the Puyallup and Nisqually cases, it also handed down a decision concerning the hunting and fishing rights of the Menominee tribe in Wisconsin. By treaty in 1854 the Menominees retroceded certain lands they had ac­quired under an earlier treaty and the United States assigned to them a reservation "for a home, to be held as In­dian lands are held." One hundred years later Congress passed an act terminating Federal supervision over the property and members of the tribe. (The termination act resulted in the near ban­kruptcy of the tribe, costing the Menominees in the vicinity of $18 million. It also gave the newly created county the highest number of welfare recipients in the State, but that is another story.) The 1954 termination act provided that after termination "the laws of the several States shall apply to the tribe and its members in the same manner as they apply to other citizens or persons within their jurisdiction." 
The termination act became effective in 1961 and the game rangers of the State of Wisconsin promptly began arresting members of the Menominee tribe for violating State hunting and fishing laws. When the case came before the Wisconsin Supreme Court, it held that any hunting and fishing rights the Menominees might have had were extinguished by the termination act which specifically stated that the Menominees were to be subject to State laws. The Menominees sued the Federal Government in the United States Court of Claims for damages occasioned by the loss of their rights. The Court of Claims held that the Indians' rights had not been lost. The Indians agreed this was their original position, and appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court 
see~ing its affirmation 0 f Claims decision. t First the Su·preme C
th h . oun 
.dat th.ebng~t to hunt and fishd
l t is y mterpretingthet that the lands were to be h 
1
lan~s (were) held" as impf ~ Indians had the right to hYlna 
because this was the Indi'a ~nt 
Wh'l . ns
1he 1t _would seem clear to the. untmg and fishing righ subJect to State regulation by the termination act reached the opposite conciusi to bend over backward to d did. The Court found solaceo· pass~d _nearly 7 years bet; termmat10n act. 
The earlier act stated that States could exercise jurisdi"qa;·_._ "Indian country" which it lands within an Indian dependent Indian community dian land allotments. Under' jurisdiction of the State could exercised against any right under treaty, agreement, or "with respect to hunting, trap · fishing, or the control, lice,....·_.,. regulation thereof." The majority Court said that the two acts had read together and that since the act said States could not regulate hunting and fishing, these survived the termination act. 
Conclusion 
There we have the two mos, 
U.S. Supreme Court decisions dian hunting and fishing. 
That the courts will go to lengths to protect the Indians' · hunt is evidenced by the Men case. But the right to hunt is substantial right. You cannot fi family by hunting. Still, hunting remain an Indian and maintain a subsistence level. On the other the Puyallup and Nisqually cases dians were commercial fis Commercial salmon fishing them to live as Indians and not starve while doing it. This ri substantial right that is not su protection by the courts. 
If Indians want to fish co they must join white society an~ cording to the rules of that soet. all right for Indians to be Ind. long as it does not cost us anyt choice of assimilate or starve the choice offered to the Indians fi turies and the dilemma ofthe India~ is that it is still the 0 
offered. _ JOE MUS 
}tllC 

IND/AN VOICE 27 
-ANITA ENDREZZE 
Yaqui Cry 

Pale rivers of dawn skim past bare feet to brush the child's fist of wild roses. The sky is gouged by the sharp silver 'p!ane and far below, the road-slashed desert sighs. 
Indian child, is this your ancestrial home? Look the world is different now, black eyes. With 'the smell of sage in your hair, wind blown, Turn to the red sand, stand in the sunrise. 
28 IND/AN VOICE 
OMANI LA KOT A 
(Continued f rom page 14) 
circle as we shall discuss in detail later. But for the moment let us just note that they are all circular. 
Wakantanka also sent all things to us in fours. Around the Rim of the World He located four cardinal directions and placed Four Winds at these points from whence they wander around the circular rim. For this rd son the sacred symbol for the universe is a circle with two 'rossed lines indicating tbe four directions. 
But just as He made the quarters f the world in four, so are most other things from Wakantaf ka gathered in groups of that sacred number. There are fou periods of time: Day, Night, Moon and Year. There are iour kinds of animals: Two Legged, Four Legged, Crawling and Winged. There are four parts to a plant: Root, Stem, Leaf and Flower (or Fruit). There are four celestial beingf Sun, Sky, Moon and Stars. There are Four Winds, starti~g with the West: Eya, Yata, Yampa and Okaga. There are four cardinal virtues for a man: Bravery, Generosity, Fortitude and Integrity; and for a Woman: Hospitality, Industry, Ffcundity and Fidelity. There are four Hills which one must attain in his hie: In­fancy, Youth, Maturity and Old Age. There are four sacred plants or herbs: Sage, Sweet Grass, r 'obacco and Cansasa (Red Willow Bark). 
Even the major aspects of Wakantanka himself are centered around the sacred number four. We have talked about how the manifestations of Wakantanka are One, and also infinite, depending on how you are thinking about them. But the infinite manifestations, or aspects, are all the things in the universe, as is the One manifestation. However, as with lesser things, there are greater and less important aspects to Wakantanka. The major ohes are found in groups of four. 
There are four superior, or highest aspects of Wakan­tanka: Wi (Sun), Skan (Sky), Ma~ca (Earth) and Inyan (Rock). Inyan is the oldest, then Maka, then Skan and then Wi. But in the order first given abo1 e they can be seen as Chief (Wi), Spirit (Skan), Creator (Maka) and Director (Inyan). Then there is a secondary g oup of four which are the counterparts of the first group:j Hanwi (Moon), Tate (Wind), Wohpe (The Beautiful One, the Female Spirit) and Wakinyan (The Thunder Being). f he third group are: Tatanka (Buffalo), Mahto (Bear), Tatetob (Four Winds-Tate means wind, Tob means four) and Yumni (Little Whirlwind). The final group orfour are: Nagi (Soul), Niya (Conscience), Nagila (Soul-Spirit of anything non­human) and Sicun (The personal wa¼an power of a being or thing). Thus Wakantanka has four ! times four or sixteen primary aspects. 
Each of the first four or Superior aspects can also be seen as being composed of four aspects. fi, the Chief of all has two major faces as Sun and his assoc~ate the Moon, and two minor faces as Buffalo and Soul. Skan, or Taku Skanskan, the Spirit Force of Wakantanka, has ~wo major faces as Sky and his Associate Wind, and two minor faces as Bear and Conscience. Maka, the Creator Forcf , has major aspects as Earth and The Female Spirit (Wohpe), and minor faces as Four Winds and Soul-Spirit (Nagila). Inyan, the Director Force has major faces as Rock and ~he associate Thunder Being, and mmor faces of the Litt[e Whirlwmd and the Charisma (Sicun). 
The first two of this last groupi g of four are perhaps easier to understand than the last two of each group. The relationship of Sun and Moon, for example, or Sky and Wind, Earth and Female Spirit or Rr ck and Thunderer are more evident than those of Buffalo-s Conscience, Four Winds-Soul-Sou_,.
Bear Whirlwind-Charisma. Later, we will speak in de•r~ t, aspect and how it relates to the whole, as well a:ailofeacta aspect relates to the others. But for the moment how eacta observe the intricate relationship of the sacred n We:Utto to all things from the most simple to the most po':1 rfo11r complex. erfw anct 
The diagram above was drawn for me when I w by a Holy Man (Wicasa Wakan) who was explain~s Yolllla things. From it we can see how four pervades the a:g theae Wakantanka. No matter how one looks at the diagra J>ecta of is always four times four or sixteen sacred aspects Ill, there 
Each of these aspects relates to one part of the· Lak universe. For example, Wi, as Chief ofall the aspects ota patron of the cardinal virtues, is the a~pect we pray t~~~ Sacred Sun Dance each summer. This dance is a four prayer for the renewal and preservation of the life ofC:: people during the next year, and so is directed to Wi beca He is the one who deals with such things. But when we 8111 ': the Sacred Pipe together we solicit and invoke Wobo because it is She who is patron of friendly relations betW: man and man; man and Spirit. So each of these sixteen aspects represent the activities of Wakantanka as directed to distinct or specialized purposes. But we must never forget that they are only various aspects of Him. As the animatiq powers of the visible and invisible world, they form a sinp being or force: Wakantanka. 
Lakota are permitted to pray to the Wakan Beings. So, when one shares the purpose of a particular aspect or Bein& one addresses that Being by name. But since innerly and finally they are all parts of one Being, our most important and profound prayers are directed to the Single Power Source, Wakantanka. 
Now we may wonder how it was that the knowledge of all these sacred things was communicated by Wakantanka to the Oyate Lakota Kin (The Lakota People). The principal means is through visions which come to all Lakota People who seek them in the proper manner, and to many even when they are not seeking them. But the most powerful visions, those which communicate the most important knowledge of Wakantanka come to a few men whom He has chosen to be Wicasa Wakan, (Holy Men). 
The first great gift and message to the People from Wakantanka was brought by a Sacred Person, one of the Star People, a long time ago. From Her, for she was a woman came our Sacred Pipe, which is the link between the People 'and Wakantanka, as well as the promise t~t all knowledge and wishes of Wakantanka relative to the lif~ of the People would be given us, through visions, when the tune arrived. This is how it all happened: 
One day, many, many winters ago before the people bad horses (some have said it was one thousand wintersagc,)two Lakota were out hunting. As they stood on a hill lookingf~r game they saw something strange coming toward them.= came nearer, they realized it was a beautiful woma~ dre le in white deerskin but ofa style which was not oftheir peop · She carried a mysterious bundle on her back and walkedllll strange" and wonderful manner. 
Now one of these men was a very earthy man with 5lr: physical desires. The woman was so beautiful th~t heir aroused him. He said to his friend that as she was not O t ncl people, they should work their will on her. But the se;the man, who was very pure and spiritual, had obse~e d bis strange manner in which the woman walked and adv!se was• companion to thrust away such thoughts as surely this wakan woman. 
. the strange woman was very close to them and 
9ythiS urne ut down her bundle, and invited the lustful stopped~ ~ear her. Suddenly, a large cloud surrounded and when it cleared away the woman stood 'feet the lustful man had turned into a pile of al pe. At e~nak~s were crawling over and eating them. 
bones. a or Black Elk, great Holy Man ofthe Lakota (llehaka Sap id that: "Any man who is attached to the senses 
/ala, has ~~ngs ofthis world, is one who lives in ignorance 
th
to _e 1 :onsumedby the snakes which represent hispas­
; bemg 

·on .") the strange woman spoke to the good man and told Then turn to his people and tell them she would come 
111 to re to give them something of great importance. He rn~rdrohw rne to his village and told his chief all that he had 
urne o 
and heard. . . . 

n hief arranged several t1p1s together mto a large The c_al tipi where all the people could gather to await the 
remom .
f this Sacred Person. Not long after the cner had
it o . .d h . . h 
d the People ms1 e t e great t1p1, scouts w o were
h

t ere · d · d h h . d d
b"ng for her rushed man cne out t at s e was m ee 
1 
t~ g in a manner that was lila wakan (very wakan). 

rnm d lk. d h .. . 
oments later she ente~ed a? , wa mg aroun t e ttp1 1? a -wise (clock-wise) direct10n, she stood before Standing Hollow Horn, the chief. 
The woman took a pipe from the bundle and a stone which placed on the ground. Holding the pipe with its stem 0 ard the sky, she told the chief that this pipe was a gift m Wakantanka, Father and Grandfather of the Lakota People. She also gave him cansasa (Bark of the red willow) tobacco and instructed him to offer this to the four direc­·00, the sky, the earth, and then to smoke it with each 
yer to Wakantanka. 
IND /AN VOICE 29 

She showed him the stone which had seven circles drawn on it. She told him that the circles represented each of the Seven Sacred Rites which would be given to the Lakota's and in which the pipe should be smoked. She pointed out that both pipe and stone were made of red stone which comes from the Earth, our Mother and Grandmother, and was made from the flesh and blood ofthe ancestors ofthe Lakota People. 
The Sacred Woman told the People many things which they needed to know about the Pipe and about what Wakan­tanka wished for them. She said the Earth that was given them was red, and that the two-leggeds who walked that Earth were red. Because of this, red was chief of the sacred · colors. Finally she told them that as long as they retained the Sacred Pipe and used it, the hoop of the people would remain strong and intact. But should they ever lose the pipe then the hoop would be broken and the people scattered. 
Again walking sun-wise, she left the tipi and walked a short distance away. Suddenly she turnsd into a red buffalo and rolled on the ground. After the red buffalo had walked a little furthsr, it rolled on the ground again and became a white buffalo calf. After walking still further away this buf­falo rolled on the ground again and became a black buffalo. Then, after bowing to the four directions she disappeared over a hill. 
-TAHCA SKA 

(OMAN! LAKOTA, the Lakota Journey, or the Lakota Way of Life will be continued next month.) 
american 
rJ l, 
i ndian arts} 1; t. 
acoma & santa clara ePOTTERY 
navajo, zuni, hopi e JEWELRY eBLANKETS eKACHINA DOLLS monday-saturday 10 to 4 
283 LORTON AVENUE 
(4is) 348-o178 
BURLINGAME, CA 94010 
30 IND/AN VOICE 

BRONZE MY SKIN, DARK MY EYES 
(Cominued.frum page 20) 
Unconsciously, she bent down and retrieved the shawl. Draping it around her shoulders, she detected a strange look of betrayal in the doe's eyes. To Morning Star's surprise, the deer abruptly turned and began walking away. The trio that blocked her path also turned away. One by one, as if sensing some sort of flaw, the herd disappeared. At first, she was happy to see her tormentors leave, yet now a faint signal from deep inside made her dubious. 
Next morning she picked up a sharp rock and chipped bark from tree trunks to record her trek. "What kind of an Indian am I, anyway!" she shouted in disgust. She felt foolish being lost practically in her own backyard and determined to find her way out. It was early afternoon when she found a familiar road and she hurried along its shoulder. Sharp pieces of gravel pierced her moccasins and her feet bled, but Morning Star was immune to the pain, she was obsessed. Tie would marry her in the white man's church and they would move to the city. She would never subject her child to such a foolish ordeal. 
Yet when Tie brought his Uncle to her bedside later that evening, Morning Star appeared placid. "I'm so glad to see both of you," she said, her voice one octave above a whisper. "though as you probably know my parents are somewhat upset with me for going through with your suggestion." She fluffed a pillow and placed it lengthwise against the head­board. "They were terribly worried that I'd lose the baby. In fact, grandfather was reprimanded for his approval of the journey and harsh words were exchanged." 
"Your parents subjected us to a very cold greeting," the medicine man replied. "But I knew the Creator wouldn't harm you during so noble an undertaking." 
At this Morning Star almost laughed aloud but she was able to control herself. She clasped Tie's hand and pulled him to her side, the warmth of her eyes covering her anger. "I missed you," she said. "I thought you'd come for me in the forest." 
"No. This was a thing you must do yourself. That is the In­dian way." 
Tie's uncle said: "Tell me the things that happened to you. Do not eliminate anything for even the slightest item may hold great significance." He straddled a slatback chair and sat down. 
Reluctantly, Morning Star began. Ar first, she studied the two men and tried to determine a reaction to her words. Holding her hand as if it were illegal, Tie's head was tipped toward the floor while his uncle's expressionless old eyes seemed capable of penetrating her soul. Turning to an exposed 2x4 in the shabby wall, she managed to include every minute detail of her harrowing experience. She was pleased at herself for having accomplished an objective at­titude throughout her tale and when she had finished she sat in an air of quiet challenge. She was sure nothing could be read into her experience: she hadn't experienced any uplift of heart. 
"Is that all you have to tell?" Tie asked. "You're sure you haven't forgotten or overlooked anything?" "I'm sure," Morning Star nodded. She drew her hand away and folded her arms across her bosom with authority. 
In longhouse fashion, the old man stood up, his action adding emphasis to his words. "There can be little doubt that the Great Spirit has responded," he said. 
Morning Star's foreh_ead shrunk with concentration. 

In a level tone the medicine man began. "The first night you ~ere not yet humble enough to receive . the wind was sent to accomplish this purp fits that were watching you saw that you had is:~ Wb only then were_you ~llowed to sleep. On th~me when you grew impatient and tried to leave Creator turned you back. Deer were sent to ~:ernat you and when you scared them off you unkn m~ pleted their message." 0 wtn 
"Scared them off? Me?" "When you covered yourself with the whit 
they became confused at your identity and ret e man blame them, for like the Indian, they have coreated. the white ~an's deeds. Our brothers in the fo~~ to order of things. They know the Indian must lk p~th and the_ white man his. Just as the robi:: 
with th_e blueJay, the buf~alo with the cow, the wolf fox, neither should races intermingle. All colors h 
. . h . ave 

a11 coIors are supenor int e1r place but no plac · 
. ' e 1s1

to another place. That is why our two-row wamp 
h. , Ulll 

shows the w ite man s path and the Indian's path. never cr?ss, meet each other or blend together." Morning Star looked at the old man. "But I don't· walk the white man's path," she said quickly. 1D 
"That is for you to decide. I only know you should to yourself. Completeness from within is all that matters." The old man started toward the door. "I'll you downstairs," he said to Tie, "I want to talk with Star's grandfather." He smiled. "I'm sure you two lo 
won't mind." Through the doorway, Morning Star watched theo hobble downstairs. One of his pigtails lay over the ba shoulder camouflaged by black squares in his check shirt. He's really an Indian, she thought. Even t dressed in white man's clothes, he retains a certain d As Tie drew himself to her she wondered if things could be as simple as the old man saw them. She guessed n she seemed aware of a curious new perspective. During the cold moons of winter, Tie kept in condi · ice skating at Sour Springs pond. Morning Star's con prohibited her from joining him, but she watched hi hockey whenever she could and brought along therm ties of sassafras and ginseng tea for refreshment. As 
drew near, the baby became more and more impatient. had reached a compromise over where the child wo born and though Tie wanted the baby born on 
reservation he was talked out ofit by Morning Star's Everybody knew the reservation hospital was stocked white interns and aged doctors and many sus patients were little more than guinea pigs. So Momin, would go to the city hospital; Tie's uncle would peri simple Longhouse wedding ceremony shortly ther 
'Tm glad things have worked out the way they Morning Star said to Tie one evening. They were sit · an old car seat under a crab-apple tree. Though the air laden with spring's warmth, the ground remained froz.e inches beneath the surface creating ponds of mud ar them. "Not that I was worried for my own safety, it'sjust I want our baby to have the best ofeverything right fro start." She affectionately rested her head against shoulder. "You know when next lacrosse season s can move into an apartment in the city." 
"That's one of the things I wanted to talk to you a Tie said. "Jimmy Beaver says that there's going to be a from the reservation this year. I've been thinking a playing for them-" 
"Oh Tie, you can't be serious." 
ther says I can have a job driving one of his y's f\hen we won't have to l~ave the reservation." 
bUSses. r pushed away from him; her eyes narrowed ·ng 5t: about your plans to play for the city team? -Whda you $250.00 a month! Can Jimmy Beaver 
of{ere t?"
t)la·" 
,_,, no-

Pt bably expects you to play for nothing-how much 11e pro ?"
offer you . 
ard "The way I see it, it's the job that counts." 

...c.satforw . . ?"
•• uch does it pay.11D'"11d up the soles of his shoes sinking into the mud. ...c.stOO ' d th " 
,.., t two hundre a mon ­
a)dlO~UNDRED?"1'1~ ·ust to start. They have a regular schedule of raises -1bltsJt paid extra for charter trips." 

rutb geght this was all settled. y OU were going to play
OU . ,,

for the city-could never live on Two hundred and fifty dollars in ~ I've been checking the prices of apartments-" u·could get a part-time job." .,;,ing what? Pumping gas, ~eing a janitor? I'm not 
ted like you are, you know. es, J know," Mo~ning ~tar ~aid tersely. She turned her voice becommg a sigh. Well then, I'll get a job. sure I can get ari office job somewhere." faesatdown heavily on the car seat, "No, you won't. My 
• is never going to support me." He grabbed her chin and her face toward him. "Jimmy said he could give me 1i dollars a game to help make ends meet." And when the summer comes and school's out, that's we live on, huh? Ten dollars a game?" -Well," Tie said slowly, "I can wash and repair the busses fall. We could plant a little garden-" Tears began streaming down Morning Star's cheeks. 
t about the baby?" she asked. Suddenly her voice 
to falter. "Maybe you and I could make a go of it, but with a new baby. They require additional expenses, you 
" 

-We11 manage." How?" 
Just like everybody else does around here. You think that 
· to the city will solve everything, but it won't. We'll be ngstrangers; we'll have no place to turn. I don't want to to the city. I never have. That's always been your idea, not 
• We have roots here among our people. We'll make ~eet with dignity, and we won't have to beg for 
ng." 

lill:;ss you_'re just a reservation Indian and you always 
• Mornmg Star sobbed. She felt the baby wriggle but -::ement drowned in the sudden hollowness that was 
y. ..~t's right," Tie said, "but /know who I am and I'm not 
-.med!" 
Mo · 
l&lin,1~g Star stood up. "I don't want to ever see you '°"ard itus Henhawk!" She splashed through the mud · h the house. "Never again EVER'" Disappearing in­
s e · · ' · 

GIit 'and VIt1ously slammed the door and one ofthe panes fell t dlg ass scattered. all over the porch.
910
Pdal. Hays_later Mornmg Star's father drove her to the hos-
1'bilc he tned to comfort her with pleasant conversation bade~ ~other sat in quiet gloom. She told Morning Star abo e ephoned the Henhawks to alert them and found 
Cltdit ~ 1the_ broken engagement at the last minute. To her ' 8 e said nothing about the situation except: "What 
IND/AN VOICE 31 

are you going to put on the form that asks the husband's name?" 
Morning Star replied, "None". 
"Don't worry about a thing, dear," Morning Star's father said. "In County Hospital babies come pretty easy." But although the doctor predicted a normal birth complications arose during delivery and the baby was immedi~ ately placed in an incubator for observation. All the other moth~rs were allowed to feed their babies and for two days Mornmg Star peered through a glass window at a plastic covered car_t offering a distorted view of her baby. She wandered aimlessly through the corridors oblivious of the antiseptic smells, oblivious to the happy murmurs of husbands who ,roa~ed the_ materni_ty ward during visiting hours. My baby s gomg to die, Mornmg Star held her throbbing breasts. I just know it. During the fourth day, two nurses wheeled the babies in for their afternoon feeding and distributed them with pompous ceremony. Morning Star hated this time ofday, she was jealous of the seven other mothers in her ward and usually went for a wal~. Sometimes she pretended to be asleep. As she was puttmg on her moccasins, one of the nurses came toward her carrying a pink bundle. Nestled inside, Morning Star saw two glassy eyes and a wrinkled face. Instinctively, she grabbed for the bundle but the nurse wisked a free hand and said "No no my dear: Climb back into bed first-then I'll give he; to y~u."' Mornmg Star threw down the moccasins and obeyed. "She sure is a cute little thing," the nurse went on "I didn't realize Indian babies were so lovely. Do you have a'name for her yet?" Morning Star received the bundle and cradled it in her arms. "No," she said. "You should call her Bright Eyes, she's got the biggest little eyes I've ever seen. They look just like the eyes of a deer. Does she look like her father, or is she a half-breed?" Morning Star looked up into the callous face. "What makes you ask a question like that?" she asked. "Well," the nurse sighed. "I couldn't help notice that your child is illegitimate and I assumed-" "There's no such thing as an illegitimate child among my people," Morning Star said. "That's the white man's way." "O~," the nurse said. "That's a very interesting philosophy." Handmg a baby bottle to Morning Star she added "You ne~d_n't get ~ppety about it, my dear. These days we 'deliver qmte a few ill-uh, babies to unwed mothers; you needn't be ashamed." , 'Tm not ashamed. And I won't be needing that bottle, thank you." "Well," the nurse said turning away, "ifthere's anything I can do just squeeze the plastic ball above your head and I'll come running." Morning Star looked into the deep, shiny eyes of her daughter and for the first time in her life a feeling of pride flooded her heart. She became immune to the confusion and crying sounds engulfing them and gently kissed the baby's forehead. "You do have bright eyes," she whispered. "Maybe Bright Eyes is your name, Bright Eyes Henhawk. My eyes have been dark for . a long, long while, but don't worry little one. Mommy's going to see to it that your eyes always remain bright." She gave the baby her breast. 
-RICHARD G. GREEN 

32 IND/AN VOICE 


BOWLING TouRNEY -5th Annual Los Angeles American Indian Bowling Tournament will be held May 19 & 20, 1973, at Wonderbowl, 7676 E. Firestone Blvd., Downey, Calif. Sanctioned by ABC-WIBC, handicap is 2 / 3 of200 and will include divisions for Men and Women. Groupings include: Team, Doubles, Singles, All-events and Masters. Entry fees are $6 per event and will be accepted 30 minutes prior to Group beginning. Door prizes, special events, special prizes and $500 added Prize Money will be awarded. For more information and entry blanks write: Riley Poodry, 315 So. Citron "A", Anaheim, Calif., 92805, or phone 714­533-1518. 
STUDENT Pow-Wow -Porterville College Native American Club will hold its first pow-wow June 29, 30 and July I, 1973, at the college campus. "Our club is not limited to students or Indians but is open to everyone who wishes to gain knowledge of Native American culture," a spokesman said. "Our pow­wow is open to all Indian nations, and we encourage everyone to attend and participate." Pow-wow participants or those interested in joining the club should contact Kenneth Tiger, 22344 W. Avenue 152, Porterville, Calif. 93257. 
u. OF MICHIGAN A sincere commitment to increase the proportion of racial minorities among its student population has been made at the Ann Arbor institution. Under the University's Opportunity Program, American Indian applicants who are residents of the state of Michigan are eligible for financial aid consideration. In addition, both out-of-state and in­state American Indians are eligible to participate in the University's American Indian Scholarship fund. Many Indian projects are being formulated to create a favorable cultural atmosphere to combat the causes of high American Indian drop-out rates. Potential Indian students are encouraged to communicate directly with: The University of Michigan, Native American Admissions Counselor, 1220 Student Activities Building, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104. 

IROQUOIS BOOKLET -A booklet illustrated by famed Akwesasne Notes artist Kahonhes traces ancient history and government in words, pictographs and drawings. Entitled The Migration of the Iroquois, the booklet price is 50<I: plus 15 cents mailing costs · and is available in quantity lots for schools. Send checks, money orders, or inquiries to: White Roots of Peace, Mohawk Nation at Akwesasne, Rooseveltown, N.Y. 13683. 
INDIAN WRITERS -The Council on Interracial Books for Children is conducting its fifth annual contest for American Indians who are unpublished in the children's book field. Five $500 prizes for all minorities will be awarded. For entry blank and contest rules, write t'o: The Council on Interracial Books for Children, 29 West 15th Street, New York, N.Y. IOOll. 

MODEL SHOES 
American Indian Arts and Crafts 
•Jewelry 
• 
Pottery 

• 
Moccasins 


a 
Bill's Model Shoe Shop 
2945 College Avenue 
Berkeley, California 
NEW BOOKS -The Institute fi Development of Indian Law announces the release of 
1
publicatio!1 on the ~ax exempt the Amen~an Indian entitled 
T~ose The]: Found Here, by 
Vmcent ~hite: This book prod cooperat10n with the American Law Center at the University of Mexico, and funded by a grant f~ William H. Donner Foundation York is initiating a series of publi in the field of Indian legal righ series will attempt to outline problems which are encountered topic area, examine the current Indian rights in that field, and p non-Indians, as well as India basis of Indian claims to rights in legal areas. The book can be o for the price of $6 from the Instit the Development of Indian Law 15th Street, N.W., Suite Washington, D.C. 20005. 
CRAFTSMEN WANTED -Lee 
carenas and George Pierre are Indian owners of the Native Am Trading Post in the Olde Towne Torrance, Calif. They offer a selection of Indian jewelry and art are looking for craftsmen who supply beadwork, silverwork, pottery. The shop is located at. I Hawthorne Blvd., Torrance, Calif. is open IO AM to 9 PM daily and 11 to 7 PM Sundays. 
. vent Isn't
If your item, new product or e that It I above, it's your fault! We only ask . 
related or will prove beneficial to lnd•a~sdial'I item six weeks in advance to: Aroundg;OS1, try, P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, CA 
I. A Bag of Bones 
By Marcelle Masson. Fas­cinating stories and legends of the Wintu Indians of northern California, as told absorbingly by an "old one", Grant Towendolly. 
Cloth 5.50; paper 2.50 
2. Buffalo Heart By Sun Bear. Exciting stor­ies of Indian culture, reli­gion, history and heroes from the standpoint of an Indian who knows much about the old ways. Cloth 6.00; paper 3.00 
3. Great Upon the Mountain -Crazy Horse of America By Vinson Brown, illus­trated by Adelbert Zephier (Yankton Sioux). A study in depth of the Indian un­derstanding of life, earth and spirit as seen through the life and feelings of a famous Indian holy man and warrior. With two color plates and many drawings. Cloth 4.95; paper 1.95 
4. Indian Talk-Hand Signals of the North American Indians By Iron Eyes Cody. Illus­trated with photographs by the author and his Seneca Indian wife; 80 pages; over 150 illustrations of the sign language. An easily-under­stood guide to a fascinating language used by the Plains Tribes for centuries. For all ages. Cloth 4.95; paper 1.95 
5. Lord of the Dawn, Quetzal­coatl By Tony Shearer. The story of ancient Mexico and her great prophet-King, Quetzal­coatl, the Plumed Serpent, in poetic prose. 7 color plates and numerous draw­ings. 
Cloth 6.95; paper 3.95 
6. Native Americans of Cali­fornia and Nevada By Dr. Jack D. Forbes. Study of Indian culture in this area from prehistoric times to the present plus a fascinating history of Indian­white ~elations. 210 pages, 18 photographic plates, 6 maps, and a history chart. A graphic and realistic ac­count, frankly pointing out crimes against the Indians. Cloth 6.95; paper 3.95 

7. Pomo Indians of California and Thier Neighbors 
By Vinson Brown; illustrated by Douglas Andrews. 64 pages, plus a full color map that shows the old trails and villages and wth paintings of Indian life; 70 illustra­tions in book, including I 2 photographs. All these finely illuminate a simply and in­terestingly-told text. 
Cloth 5.50; paper 2.50 
8. Pomo Basketmaking By Elsie Allen. The life and art of this devoted Pomo grandmother. Mrs. Allen gives complete step-by-step directions for recreating beautiful and useful baskets, from gathering and prepar­ing roots and feathers to actual weaving and finishing of the baskets. Fully illus­trated. 
Cloth 5.00; paper 2.00 
9. Songs of the Yokuts and Paiutes 
By Alfred Pietroforte. Indi­an folk singing, adapted for grade school use by an in­structor at the College of the Sequoias. Of interest to anyone interested in Cali­fornia and Nevada Indians. Many pages of actual songs are accurately transcribed in , the book. IO full-page photographs and 6 drawings. 
Cloth 4.50; paper 1.50 
10. Tales of the Sea Foam By Lisette G. Brown. True adventures of an 11-year­old white girl with an Indian group of the northwestern California coast. A wise and wonderful old Indian wo­man lends strong interest to the story. Aids relations and understanding between white and Indian children. 5 photos, 12 drawings. Cloth 4.75; paper 1.75 
11. Tapestries in Sand-The Spirit of Ind ian Sandpaint­ing By David Villasenor, a part Otomi Indian, who has learned sandpainting from the Navajo medicine men. He writes with deep beauty arid feeling of this ancient art and its inner meanings. Many fascinating stories of Indian religion and culture are told. 112 pages, 16 pages of fine color plates. Cloth 6.25; paper 3.25 
12. Warriors of the Rainbow By William Willoya (Eski­mo) and Vinson Brown. Strange a nd prophetic vi­sions of the Indian Peoples. Five magnificent full-color reproductions of paintings done by Indian artists. 20 line drawings and 104 pages. Cloth 5.50; paper 2.50 
Good Medicine Series 13A Life in Harmony with Na­ture 32 pages. Paver 1.50 
13B Companion Volume 32 pages. Paper 1.50 13C In Glacier Ntl. Park 32 pages. Paper 1.50 13D Traditional Dress 50 pages. Paper 2.50 
I3E Tipi Life 
32 pages. Paper 1.50 13F Good Medicine Thoughts 32 pages. Paper 1.50 
13G Legends 64 pages. Paper 2.50 13H Spirit at Hidden Valley 120 pages. Paper 3.00 
14. Strange Journey By Louis Lone Dog (Mo­hawk-Delaware). We were intrigued and delighted by the haunting loveliness and striking spirituality of the face of this Indian woman, but even more by the extra­ordinary adventures of the spirit of which she writes. Illustrated with 2 color plates and several drawings by Tso Yazzie. Paper 1.50 
Charles Eastman Books ISA Indian Boyhood 
Paper 3.50 
15B Old Indian Days 
Paper 3.50 
ISC The Soul of the Indian 
Paper 3.50 
16. Gospel of the Redman 
By Ernest Thompson Seton. 
Depth and beauty of reli­gion. An account of the Indian way of life. 108 pa­ges. 
Paper 1.95 
17. Secret of No Face, an Ireok­wa Epic By Chief Evere/1 Parker & O/edoska. An authentic Seneca tale never record~d before. Lavish color illus­trations & sketches by Indi­an artists. Glossary of Sene­ca words. 174 pages. Cloth 6.95; paper 3.95 

• ORDER BY NUMBER ONLY . I (P250C550) 2 (P300C600) 3 (P250C550) 4 (PI95C495) 5 (P395C695) 6 (P395C695) 7 (P250C550) 8 (P200C500) 9 (Pl50C450) IO (PI75C475) 11 (P325C625) 12 (P250C550) 13A (Pl50) 138 (Pl50) 13C (Pl50) 
13D (P250) 13E (Pl50) 13F (Pl50) 13G (P250) 13H(P300) 14 (Pl50) ISA (P350) 15B (P350) 15C (P350) 16 (Pl95) 17 (P395C695) 
I would like __ additional copies of No. 
0 I am enclosing full remittance, send my book(s) prepaid.
0 Bill me. You may add 50ir hand­ling for I to 3 books+ I0«t each for four or more books. 
Mail to: Indian Books, Native American Publishing Company, 
P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, Cali­fornia, 95051. 
NAME 
ADDRESS 

CITY _____________STATE ___ZIP CODE _____ 
Postage prepaid only when cash, check or money order accompanies order. 

·. ~· •.!~. · ·• .. 
~ /· I.· 
~/ ' 

WOUNDED ·KNEE 
TO THE PE.OPLE: oi= u.~.A. TO THE C.HILDREN OF GUILT · A PLE.A To YOU :'To·· LISTEN TO 
·THE. VOIC.E ATWOUNDEb Kf\/EE. 
FEE~INGS THAT\-fAUNT OUR DAYS . THE. SHOST OF LO~G PASSED DEE.DS AN ANC.lEN, SCAR 11-+A_T 1-+A-S NEVER DIED 
AND lS UVING Ar WOUND~.D ~NeE. 
Tl+E BL.OOD OF l'HE-~5.C HAS PASSEL'> tNTo Wl-+1 TE.. WITH WOVOKA'S DAN(£ OF THE 0HOST.S 
WOUNDED KNEE -A VERSE. FoR THEE. 
TO THE PEOPL.E OF <J,S.A .. TO n+E. C.1--\tLDREN OF SH AME­A PLEA To YOU TQ LOOK IN THE. WOUN() 
TH-AT'S DIVtDE.D THE SKfN Of MEN 
·..• ··•·· .-.~;\-•!
: .... :i~\, 
, DoN'r LE+'-V.E>1t .·uPTo •·t1 HYPOCRI TICALHORSE. M E~i RIDJNG ·sADDLssQ~ r~r oLEN 1-£ATHER SfflLL DEALING DU.TIES FoR CUSTER 
, . 
,.:,·wo(.fNoeo KNEE-/A PLEA FoR.. THee 
U.S. POSTAGE PAID PERMIT NO. 2040 

SAN JOSE, CALIF DEAN CHAVE S 3180 MORRI DRIVE PALO LTD CA 94303 


