
America's Only Indian Magazine Volume 2, No. 4 


gacy of Alcatraz -The Alaskan Land Claim -The Poetry 
. 
~ • ..-•-..•-..•-..• .... • ~ ·=:=t·=:~=:'·=====: edi.to riaJ=:=:··=:=:::"·:~:~::·::~:~::·::~:i::·=:i:~::·=:i:i::·::~:~::·::~:i::·==~f:::·=:=t-=:=~:··:t-:-·.0-_..
,.. ~ ... ..... .. ... ... . ...... ······~-~
. 

~~~~ff •. 
~ Indian Voice, the all-Indian monthly maga­
...11111111 
zine, is published by the Native American ~ Publishing Company, a non-prorrt organiza­~ tion, to present an authentic view of the 
American Indian history, culture and heri­~ tage. It will endeavor to express the hopes, 1111... fears and aspirations of those who are the ,.. true Native Americans. 
: FERN EA~~~~: (Dakota) 

·~ MANAGING EDITOR ~ DEAN CHAVERS (Lumbee) 
~ SECRETARY-TREASURER 
~ CAROLE STUBBS (Dakota) 
~ ILLUSTRATORS 
1111... ARCHIE BLACKSMITH (Dakota) 
~ IDA RYAN (Chippewa) 
~ STAFF 

~ ANN HANSEN 
1111... 
,.. (Acoma-Pueblo) 


~ ANN KELLY 
,.. (Apache) 

I~ 
~ 
~· 
~ ~ 
1111... 
,.. 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 


KEN RYAN 
(Abenaki) 


GLORIA RAY 
(Acoma-Pueblo) 
./ if'/;/ 
~ 
~ 
...11111111 
~ 

1111... With the advent ofthe Third World Strike at the University ofc r ,.. at Berkeley in_ early 1969, the ques_ti?n ~f cl_asses in college by,~ •fo 
...11111111 

about the Indian came up. By participatmg m the Third World S 0 ~, 
~ 

Berkeley, and the later strike at San Francisco State College tnke_a students, who were only a handful on e~ther campus, brought outt~ndian
~ 

~ · that not only were there almost no Indian students on the campu efaa there were also almost no classes that were Indian-oriented. se but Shortly afterwards, many of the colleges and universities arou d
~ 

nation started to recrui~ Indian students, a~d at the s~me time someo~tht 
~ 

also started classes bmlt around the Indian experience in America e generally called "Native American Studies." There are perhaps 20•
~ 25 0
these programs in the state of California now, and many other colleges 
~ 

far east as New York, suddenly now see the need for Indian studie 
These programs, as could be expected, have run into some prob}. ~ One is the lack of "qualified" Indians, at least qualified as theead ~ ministrators see it. Since there are only 15 Indians in the whole nation · · ~ Ph.D. degrees, it stands to reason that there won't suddenly beenoughJn­
dians with the doctorate to meet the demands for these programs. Not tha t~e doctorate is _enough~ i_f an I~dian has s~ecialized in one of the standard
~ 

fields -educat10n, pohtical science, English, anthropology, sociology there is no reason to think that he is especially qualified to teach ati
~ 

American Studies. And since the universities are not geared to study
...11111111 

~ Native American experience, a graduate student must design almost all "Indian" courses himself. ~ Another problem is what the curriculum of Native American Stud should be designed for. Should it be designed to acquaint the non-Indian
~ 

with Indian culture and life, or should it be designed to give the Indian ~ student the skills he needs to work in Indian communities with hi o people? The answer seems to be that the programs can do both these thin
~ 

The introductory courses can be designed for the average college studentt ~ learn about Indian problems and questions, and the more advan 
courses can be designed for the student who wants to learn reservation­~ oriented skills. There is no need for a student to take a class on curriculum ·~ design for Indian schools, for instance, unless he plans to work in Indian 
schools. And these types of skills are much needed in Indian communiti 
~ 

Behind this question, though, lies a more basic,theoretical one: what 
should be the basic orientation of the Native American Studies? Should the~ purpose be to make visible the "invisible minority?" Or should ~ ! curriculum be designed mostly for Indians? Allied with these two qu 
tions is the one of who will enroll in the classes-only Indians, onh ~ whites, or both. If one looks at the actual situation on any I_n~ian _r ; vation, the answer may become more clear. All the top positions m.
~ 

federal programs are, almost without exception, held down by _whi 
1
~ These positions should be held by Indians, if their record o~ fail°cf include Indian people is to be overcome. Indians will work_ with In arc ~ on programs generated in Indian communities, but many times they 
justifiably suspicious of the intentions of another outside bureau who is brought i~ with another program. ~ It's time for Indian people to initiate, run, evaluate, modify -co~tro 1 ·~ all Indian affairs. Training the Indian young people must be the maJorg of the Studies programs. 
·~ 
. ~ 
1111... 
,.. 
~ 

· 
~ 


Indian Voice. is published by Native American Publishing Com-· ,...11111111 pany, a non-profit organization. Manuscripts and are materials · ~ are welcome but no responsibility can be assumed for unsoli­
cited materials. Address all correspondence to: P.O. Box 2033, 1111... Santa Clara, Ca., 95051 . Subscription rates $7.50 for 1 year, ,.. $15.00 for two years and $22.00 for three years. Canadian 
~ subscribers add $1 .00 per year. Copyright applied for. 
...................... .......

~ ~. 

IND/AN VOICE 3 

"The wealth which we affect in Europe, such as gold, jewels, pearls and other riches, they hold of no value at all . .. 
. Voice comes at you this month and they are so liberal in giving that _111d•9:hole hodge~~dge of material; it is the exception when they deny you ~th a ·al is diversified, and the only . anything."
aten .
th~ m holding it together is the ,ract that th1~g bout Indians. And thats all we 1t 1 ~ you. We intend for the 
rollllJ~e to present diverse points of · ~ ga because there are many, many In­\ w, 'bes around the nation and the VOLUME II JULY 1972 NUMBER 3 
. n tn · .
d~ h American contment, and there EDITORIAL .................................................................................................. Inside Front · ort ny members of the tribes who MAIL CALL ........................................ :....................................................................... 4 
are ma
something to say. FEATURES ~ comment comes this month from THE LEGACY OF ALCATRAZ :anaging Editor, Dean Chavers, -Dean Chavers . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 THE ALASKAN LAND CLAIMS CASE: an analysis
~ oanalyzes the ~laskan N~tive Land 
-Staff............................................................................................................ 12
()aims Bill, and. its f1;1ture i1!1pact on 
THE HISTORY OF ALAMEDA COUNTY (excerpt) 
·ative life -which wi~l be disastrou~. 
. ................................................................................................................... 25 
· Chavers also wntes about his 
THE CONTEM.PORARY SCENE e periences on Alcatraz, and the impact 
INDIAN PUBLICATIONS 
the Alcatraz movement has had on In­
-Staff............................................................................................................ 19 dian affairs since 1969. There are, of UPCOMING EVENTS......................................................................................... 32 course, many things that haveitappene~ INDIAN WORLD NEWS (a new feature)......................................... .................. 35 
·nee that are not apparent to the naked THE ARTS eve and these are many times as im­FIVE HUNDRED YEARS LIVING AMONG SAVAGES ~~ nt as what we can see. 
-Darryl Wilson ......................................................................................... :... 9 
POEMS for the memory of Raymond Yellow Thunder 
Robert J. Conley, Darryl Wilson, and 
-Robert J. Conley........................................................................................ 10 
.'orman Russell all pro:vide us with POETRY me outstanding Indian poetry. 
-Norman H. Russell & Randall Ackley ........................................... :........... 11 
Conley feels very deeply about the POTTERY FROM ACOMA PUEBLO murder of Raymond Yellow Thunder, -Lucy M. Lewis & Anne Lewis Hansen .................................. .......... Centerfold and he wants to make sure that none of INDIAN WISDOM 
forgets it soon. HOW TO MAKE AND FOLLOW A BLAZED TRAIL The list of Indian publications was -Charles Eastman.................................................................. ................ ....... 8 THE BURNING SCAR
ublished because of requests for such a 
-Robert J. Conley ................ ........................................................................ 16
·t, especially from new departments of 
WIGWAM EVENINGS . 
.'ative American Studies that are 
-Charles and Elaine Eastman .. , .................................................................... 41 
tarting to spring up in the colleges 
OTHER FEATURES 
around the nation. All the publications, SEMINOLE TOWNS J t like Indian Voice, are struggling to 
-John D. Gillespie········:······························································ ················· 23
Yalive, and of course need support. NEWS FEATURES FROM AMERICAN INDIAN PRESS ASSOCIATION ... 40 The "History of Alameda" included INDIAN RECIPES ............................................................................................... 42 r~ is an example of the attitudes of hite settlers in California (and other 
.ces) toward Indian people. One ght say that this type of attitude is the ~~ cause of the "Indian problem;" the Iles, wh~m Grant Foreman, the
0 
lahoma historian, called the "scum of were uneducated had 
' 

ad a chance to make anything of the Seminole people are still hanging on, pottery ·work is widely recognized all' , e~elves in the white communities of and are still independent. over the Southwest as being ofthe fin~st st, and were determined to be the This month we initiate an Indian quality, and we are proud to feature it 
,, of. the West. They proceeded to cooking contest; turn to page 42 to learn here. 
·•

With Indians as the first order of the details. On the same page are some Wigwam Evenings, fiction by Conley, more good Indian recipes. · and news from American Indian Press 


G' . 

· dlesp1e traces for us the The centerfold this month features Association complete the issue . 
S .

emmole towns that existed two outstanding ladies from Acoma , Ye the Seminole Wat, after which Pueblo, Lucy M. Lewis and her Were all scattered, of course. But daughter, Anne Lewis Hansen. Their 





Editor: 
I read many words written by Indians 

about Indians. The more I read the more 
I begin to have a feeling that is similar to 
that felt after reading all the texts written, 
mostly by whites., over the past 200 years. 
Where is the truth? Who is fooling who? 
Like so many Indian people I feel help­less and choose not to say anything. Could if be that Indian people are being led by government and popular belief towards a final destruction of Indianness? Could In­dian and white politicians and lawyers be leading the people to such a confusion of Indian and white values that their Indian­ness will be lost? Some say "the Indian way is always changing and this is the new In­dian," but are they really basing the new Indian values on those that have developed over thousands of years with their people or have they reversed their thinking to want anglo values while only saying we are In­dian? Could there be a plot to let the Indian destroy himself since nothing else seemed to work in the past? Could Indian politi­cians, unknowingly and knowingly, be lead­ing this cause? Look and learn how much distrust has developed between anglos and their leaders . Now I have said only enough to caution against going with every war party that leaves camp. Some may never ' return. It was only the wise warrior who 
knew which would be successful. 
. As far as I know I do not have any In­

dian blood. I wish I did so I could help. 
Please don't let this keep you from under­
standing my words. 
P. E. MILLER Four Winds Trading Post 
Dear Sir: 
I have always loved the noble Indian race and though I don't have any Indian blood we are still brothers of a greater race 
and that is the human. 
I wrote this little poem years ago (it's really a song.) to my beloved Hopis hoping they would someday hear it. (If not the mu­
sic perhaps the words.) Thank you for listening In Brotherhood, 
COSETTE WILLOUGHBY 
To the Hopi 0 bright sundown, Hear my heart speak. Little bluebird, Hear my heart cry. Guide my slow feet Down long pathway. Bright sky, light way. Bluebird bring day. Slow feet obey. 
Bluebird my clan, There my heart fly. Like small bluebird L.ost in blue sky. Love finds its way, Though path be long. All love, all joy, In bluebird's song. 
Cosette Willoughby 
About the Cover 
This month's cover was designed by Anne Lewis, from Acoma Pueblo, New Mexico. The hummingbirds belong to the Mimbres people, who vanished between 1100 and 1200 A. D. They did not stay to speak with us, but archaeologists have unearthed bowls with these designs from burial sites and ruins. 
The cover designer is a potter in her own right, as well as being a talented artist. She and her famous mother, Lucy Lewis, are featured in the centerfold this month. 
Dear Sirs: . I ~ave ~een s~bscribing to your fi hcahon smce 1t started and en :ne check for another year. c Ole I wish to compliment you on fi 
. . f . me 
most m ormahve articles. J unde problems more clearly now. I have had sympat~y for the Indian-now your magazine I have a greater und mg. What would the chances be an Indian to head up the BIA?° dream "too large"? 
Thanks so much 
We are certainly glad you find t zine useful and informative. If create more understanding of the suppression by the government, knowledge of what to do about it will have accomplished what w; to do. 
There is an "Indian" as head of now. But he has never really /iveJ Indian, and so to some extent understand Indians. He is a Re dairy farmer from New York, wholf is Louis R. Bruce. Mr. Bruce is trym, haps as hard as any 'Commissioner John Collier, (1933-1945) to work dians and to work for their benefit, his lack of cultural background. He be spurred on by a letter from you, or anyone else who wants the best for 


IND/AN VOICE 5 

THE LEGACY OF 





ALCATRAZ 
Three Years Later, the Aura of the Alcatraz Island Occu­pation Still Influences Indian Affairs 
traz Island in San Francisco Bay me the focus in Indian affairs 
When 78 young India.ns invaded' traz Island m San Francisco Bay uring the night of November 19, 1969, y did more than destroy the plans Texas millionaire oilman Lamar Hunt, who wanted to build a multi­llion-dollar monument to space ht on the island. They destroyed, or least punched large holes in, the _ge most whites and other non­
1 
~ns have of Indians. 
· o longer was it possible for the rage tourisno visit Indian pueblos _villages and desecrate the cere­on1e o_f healing and religion that t _Indians still practice. One tribe nzona banned tourists during its ~I. fertility ceremony, and put nctions on the use of cameras for 
{rst time. fse actions represent the legacyhe catraz for the Indian. No longer e co~ent, in many cases, to sit and 
[. w tever the Bureau of Indian h•r (BIA) or other federal agencies rv~~-t. From the earliest time of 
•on days the Indian has been 

nationwide when it was occupied in 
November, 1969. 
assumed to be dumb, · stupid, uncivi­lized, and unable to take care of his own affairs. This point has been pushed so much that even some Indians had started to believe it, and this is where · the psychology of the situation became destructive. 
Because the Indian was supposedly the ward of the government, the Indian agents took all power of the. traditio!lal Indian governments away m . the first years ·of reservation times. . In some cases the tribe had all its horses taken away, and had to go long distances on foot, becaus~ they would suppos~dly use the horses to escape the reservation. The traditional leaders could no longer run affairs :on the reservations; this was left up to the agent, wh? was appointed by the government with the advice of the churches, or who was a soldier or political hack. None of these three groups of peop~e did a de~ent job of protecting Jhe nghts .of Indi3:ns in the early days, and the Civil Service bureaucrats who succeeded them and are· still in ·office today don't do any better. · · 
So in many ways Indian people were 
at a low point in history when the 
Alcatraz invasion took place. The 
attitude of most of the people who took 
over the island was "What the hell­
what do we have to lose. We're living 
on the streets anyway, so anything is 
better than this." 
In many ways the Indian who 
emerged from Alcatraz was not the 
same one who werit there. He left the 
island a proud man, one who had been . strengthened in the beliefs he had been taught as a child, and which the white­man's boarding schools and public schools had tried to brainwash out of him. On Alcatraz he could be with other Indians without the presence ·of a white around him-a unique expe­rince. for many Indians, who are met at every corner by one . white auth­ority after another. · . 
Hut tnis upsettmg ·ot the applecart 
left many Indians confused about the 
value of the tactics used by the invaders. 
For decades, many of the older Indians 
have been content to work behind the 
scenes, trying through negotiations and 
persuasion to force the federal govern­
ment to live up to its treaty obligations, 
and to honor the Indian heritage, and 
not to keep trying to destroy it. Most 
of the people who had worked behind 
the scenes were continually 'frustrated 
by the trickery of the government, but 
they felt that it was not the Indian way 
to demonstrate or to picket, or to take 
on any of the tactics of the New Left 
and similar groups. . 
The tactics of the young people who 
invaded Alcatraz seemed to border too 
closely on the tactics of confrontation 
used by white artd Black radicals and 
war protesters so frequently in the past 
few years, despite protestations by all 
the invaders that the Alcatraz move­
ment was intended to be peaceful. But 
after months had passed and the only 
violence occurring had been by the 
Federal authorities, many Indian 
people lost their fear of making a move 
of this kind, and events started to 
happen. 
(Over) 



ALCATRAZ 
(Continued) 

Within a few months of the Alcatraz occupation, a group of Pomo Indiai:is had occupied Rattlesnake Isl~nd _m Clear Lake, Northern Cahforma; Mohawks had occupied Stanley Island in the St. Lawrence River on the U.S.­Canadian border; the Pitt River Indian Tribe had started to reclaim its ances-· tral lands-at least that part of their lands now held by the federal govern­ment and the large corporations; a group of Nisqually Indians had stormed and twice occupied Fort Lawton, an Army base near Seattle that before World War I was a part of their reservation; and the American Indian Movement had led a major occupation of Mount Rushmore . in the Black Hills of South Dakota, which the Oglala Sioux have never acknow­ledged giving up. 
In each of these cases, and several more since then, two things have been apparent: (I) the Indian people in­volved have not ever given their consent to the taking of their lands, and (2) they had never before tried to drama­tize their claims to their ancestral lands with an actual occupation of them. In many of these cases, the occupation marked a very important turning point for Indian people. What it meant was that despite too years of government sc~ools a!ld force~ assi~i­lation into white society, Indians still reject . whiteman culture as being somehow wrong and not in keeping with traditional Indian society and culture. This does not mean, as some have stated it in the past, that the Indian was "returning to the blanket." The "back to the blanket" stupidity was started by the white ethnocentrists, including a high percentage of church people, who thought that the Indian way of live was savage, uncivilized, ·barbaric, animal­istic, and not worthy of a human. Those people-who believe so strongly that the American way of life is the · high point of culture in the world, and that everyone else, every other people, will have to live like Americans or die ·-have never tried to understand Indian culture, and especially the philosophy of Indian people. There are many Indians who think there must be a reason for this; the whiteman (or any­one else who identifies with the whiteman culture) is insecure in his beliefs, and has to reinforce them -conJtantly to live with them. An~ becuase he is not secure in his tradi­tions, he can stand no t~reat to these traditions. He must eradicate all cul­tures which would be a threat to his recently-established traditions. He is not secure in them like the European, 
··because, although they are drawn from the European, they are qualitatively 'different from the European. 
He has tried to wipe out Indian cultures through sending Indian chil­dren to federal boarding schools. There the children are forbidden to speak their own Indian languages, and . to practice their religions. Instead, they have to speak only. English, after they learn it, and have to go to the Chris­tian church and practice Christianity. And the Indian who does not go along with this practice is "going back to the blanket." 
But the Indian chi1d knows that he cannot sell out the home and family he has come from so cheaply, just to fit in with white sodety and get a job workmg for the white~an. He would then have to deny mentally that he has a home and family and place to go back to; he would have to admit that his parents and family and friends are animals, savages, with no decent habits of behavior. And that is a hard admis­sion for anyone to make. 
Consequently, the Indian child is caught "between two cultures," as one anthropologist put it. He is damned if he does, and damned if he doesn't. The high dropout rate, .the drinking in the federal schools, the glue sniffing, the runaways who freeze in the snow, are all attributable to this choice that is forced on the young Indian. The Alcatraz invaders had been through this system forced on them by the wliiteman, and they were fed up with it. ' 
Almost all the first 78 were college students or · students going through technical training under the Bureau of Indian Affairs in San Francisco or Los Angeles. About 40 of them were from Los Angeles, a few from Santa Cruz, a few from Davis, and the rest from the San Francisco Bay area. Most had been brought to the cities from the reservations by the BIA's "relocation" program, and had learned some trade in the city, such as welding, barbering, laundering, or motel cleaning: Most of thein had also been fed up with having to work for beans, and had gotten into college in 1968 or 1969 under the Educational Opportunity Program (EOP), a federal program helping th.~ economically distressed to finance their way through the college system. Most of them were over 25, and most had "paid their dues." 

Disillusionment 
Disenchantment with the prevailing system of Indian education was one of the main reasons for the Alcatraz occupation: Most of the students i~ the initial invasion had gotten admitted into colleges where there was not one course in the entire college curriculum about Indians. In the colleges they were attending, if there was a course on 
· Indians, it was almost always an Anthropology course on "Indians of North America." The structure of the college system, then, was int 
actly, as far as Indians were endect to do the same thing as the ~fn 
and secondary schools runelllen federal governmmt-brain by Indian and make him over in~asb man. Most of them were reJ a" having to make that choice ~p 
traz was the alternative th~~ 
allow them to make an edu . 
niche for t~emselves as lndianscati 

The Indian cultural center tha planned for the island would havet Just that~a center for Indians to oth~r Indians about Indian life and Indian way, as ~ell as religion and and crafts. Durmg the time the on the island, many of the childrio actually enrolled in an Indian SC and dozens of Medicine Men and gious leaders were brought to Alea Some stayed for a few days, and stayed for months. But they all ta the people on the island in the I way, and started the rebirth of I · culture and pride in Indian tradi · that is still the hallmark of the who lived on the island. 
Touchy Subject 

Of course, it is a threat to the man leaders to admit that there is value in the Indian heritage, and were determined from the first day end the Alcatraz occupation any they could without putting too m smut on the Nixon administration. The occupation became one of the · priority items on the agenda of Interior Department; unbekno the· American public, one Interior Department official ·rank_ing very : in the heirarchy was assigned the job of keeping up with the 1'-l?atraz pation. It was part o~ his JO~ for o a month to brief President Nixon on the latest developments. . 
Nixon warned his subordma handle the situation with kid glo 
At that time he was trying to b~ constituency among. the Am~ public that he had faile.d tf get m 

1968 election, and he d~dn t V!ant: 
one or anything to give him G 
marks. When one of the Coa~~en 

boats guarding Alcatraz accib . · 
rammed one of the boats 
people out to the Island, thet Guard was ordered to p~ll ~d pletely from around the isla · · had actually blockaded th:he 
during the first four days of 
pation, but on th~ fifth_ ~ay,were 
became clear tbat the I.nd:~ore going to leave, and furth e pubJic 
wide support among t e bad 
Northern California, they 
the blockage. he 
This seemed to many oft~ an indication that th_e adpeople recognized that Indian . . ate grievances against the 


rne Jegttlill nment for not honoring e(leral ~overnd against some members i trea~1es, a ment of the public who tbCfthe nch semgent officials to get at 
overn . h t' b .

ribe g d water ng ts, im e~,_mm­(ndian Jan il wells. It was not pohtical~y ra ,~nd ~o slap the Indian people 1_n 
c. ped1ent when they brought _up this 1 fac~ubject, so the occupat10n was 10uchY continue, as long as the 1uowed to uld not find some excuse 0fficials hceopeople off the island bodily, to haul t had vowed not to leave 
a theY 
oJuntarily. 

Indian Education 
ome one to make such a stand, 

forhsas to be sufficient reasons, and 
ther~ost of the people on the island, 
for were these reasons. For years now
~he::s been observed that the young~r
11 d. n adults were not content to sit
Jn 1a · b · 
nd watch their youngsters emg?· aed off to boarding schools out of ~ffor off the reservation. But despite th' resentment by them, _the Bureau of Indian Affairs today stlll has 10,oqo Indian children under the age of 10 m federal boarding scho?ls. Many of these children ente~ at six years. of age not speaking Enghsh, and durmg the first year they have not only to learn English, but are forbidden to spe~k their own language. Many NavaJo children are still punished when they peak Navajo in the whiteman's 
hools. 
During the long planning sessions for the Alcatraz invasion, held in San Francisco, people talked about the fact that the boarding schools do not men­tion Indian history or culture, nor do the public schools in almost all cases. What is taught in the schools of . merica today, they said, is only what allowable in any suburban middle-
la s white school, and there is no allowance for different cultures to ~urture their young in their own tradi­llons. The boarding schools are destr?ying Indian culture, they said, ~nd if we don't do something about 11 oon, it will soon be too late. 
Therefore the Indian Cultural Center on Alcatraz would have been all-Indian ~n and staffed, and would have been intended for the preservation of Indian ~ldture..Only one school in the nation
1 

. nd1an staffing control and cur­
ncuJ ' ' 
De um at . that time-Rough Rock monstration School the highly in­
nov f ' 
sch a ive and successful elementary ln/ 01 at the Rough Rock _Navajo un:!n Community, Chinle, Arizona. the ian Voice, November 1971) Since ho ~ccupation, three other Indian u~ 8 have been taken over and run nine ssfuUy by Indian parents, and take ~ 0.re communities are trying to
1

and f ~r schools over from the BIA 
01
ow the highly successful ex­amples of the first three. (March/ April 1972 Indian Voice) There is a major movement afoot among Indian com­munities to take over their schools, and the idea of Alcatraz, combined with the success of the schools that were run by Indians, has undoubtedly con­tributed to this movement, at least in spirit. And some of the former Alcatraz occupiers are now working at the schools run by Indians. 

This is quite a change in concept from the one now most widely prac­ticed. There are 226 Indian schools run by the federal government, and they are s.taffed by Civil Servants answerable only to Washington; only a small percentage has any kind of participation, involvement, or cultural contact with the parents of the children. There is no room in the picture for Indian input; the schools are designed for culture change, and come hell or high water the administrators intend to "civilize" the Indian child. These administrators fight the new movement for local control tooth and nail, know­ing that the parents may fire them for incompetence or cruelty to their children i,f they take over the schools, as well as their steady assertion that the Indian heritage is "bad" and that the child should forget about it. They are joined in the fight by state school officials, who want the Indian-run schools under their baliwick, and are more ethnocentric, if anything, than the federal officials. 

Boarding Schools 

The first boarding school for Indians run by the federal government was established in 1879 at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania. The Carlisle Indian School turned out many fine Indian athletes in the early part of this century, the most famous being the venerable Jim Thorpe, winner of eight Gold Medals in the 1912 Olympics. Their football teams in the early '20's beat most of the Ivy League teams, and they may have had the best football team in the nation at that time. 
But long before that, Carlisle became a model school for the rest of the federal boarding school system. The concept of the boarding school as the only way to destroy the heritage of the Indian child had started much earlier. The colonies of Massachussetts, Virginia, and New Hampshire all had Indian boarding schools before the Revolution, and there wer.e boarding schools scattered among many Eastern tribes after the Revolution; but it re­mained for an Army Captain, Richard Henry Pratt, to spread and popularize the idea. 
Pratt liad drawn the assignment of herding some Indian prisoners from reservations in Oklahoma to the fed­eral prison at St. Augustine, Florida, 
IND/AN VOICE 7 

in the late 1870's. After getting them there, he wa& further detailed to guard them while they were imprisoned. To pass cJ.Way the time, ne startea teacfiing them ' some of the whiteman's tech­niques and they learned the trades rapidly. Pratt then came up with the rather startling idea, for its time, that the Indian was after all just another ·human being, with all the capabilities and limitations of other human beings. This became his conviction for the rest of his life, and he spent most of the rest of his life fighting for this 
conviction. 
The idea behind the boarding school 
spread among the American people, 
and became the rule of the day with the 
goverment officials. Within a few 
years the government was building 
boarding schools all over the west. At 
the same time, of course, they were 
also building day schools on some reser­
vations, so the federal school system is 
today still mixed, with 77 of the 226 
schools being the boarding type, rather 
than ones where the children can return 
home each day. And the boarding 
schools get mostly the full-blood, un­
acculturated Indian children, because 
the basic ideology of the schools is to 
change these children into whites. 
This practice of deliberately trying 
to break up the Indian home and des­
troy the Indian family has been under 
attack by various groups over the years 
as inhuman and extremely harsh. One 
of the first reports on Indian education 
was included in the Meriam Report of 
1928, popularly called after the princi­
pal author, which called for an alto­
gether different approach to. Indi~n 
education-the day school, with chll­
dren being allowed to return home 
every day. The report caused quite a 
stir when it came out, with publicity 
in the papers and many speeches for 
it and official denunciations of it, but 
today the situation it described is even 
worse; instead of 59 schools for board­
ing students, today there are 77 of 
them, and they house 40,000 students 
instead of 27,000 as in 1928. 
The BIA (Boss Indians Around) has 
seemed impervious to attack. Other 
reports, including the Blauch report of 
1938, the Kennedy Report of 1969, and 
the BIA-sponsored National Study of 
Indian Education completed in 1970 
(which attempted to whitewash the 
faults the concurrent Kennedy Report 
pointed out) all found major short­
comings with the boarding school 
system, and all recommended its modi­
fication or abolishment; but the system 
still continues, and appears to some 
Indians to be destined to last, forever. 
The message of the Bureau to the 
Indian is still the same as it was a hun­
dred years ago-"assimilate". into the 
(See Page 43) 



HOW TO MAKE AND FOLLOW 

The blazed trail is especially designed for those who travel in the deep woods, where these simple guide-posts are neces­.sary at times, if only for temporary use . The Indian hunter somet1mes finds him­self with a limited time in which to provide his winter's supply of meat, before the opening of the trapping season. In such an event, he would not take time to carry all his game home, but would blaze connect­ing trails to where he had killed and hung up the different animals, and a direct road home. There is also the trapper's trail, the regular path between established camps, and the concealed or secret blazed trail. We shall consider each of these varieties in order. 
The blaz'ed trail meant for general use -the public highway, as it were -may not always be the shortest road, but it will be the easiest and most convenient. You may blaze such a trail to the mountain-top for the finest view, or to your cabin in the woods. The blazes on the trees will be ob­vious and near together, about three inches lopg and three feet from the ground. At every turn a sapling is felled, at the same 
·height as the blaze, the felled top hanging on 1ts stump and pointing in the desired direction. 
. The game trail differs from the above in several respects. The blazes are smaller and are about five feet high; they are also-, further apart -about twenty to twenty­five paces. At each turn the hack is deeper, and if to the left, it is made on tl_-ie left side of the tree, if to the right, on the hght side. 
T he blazes are more open to view when coming from the camp, as when the scout has gone over it once, he can always follow 
it back home. An Indian game trail is very 
indistinct to one who is not looking for it, 
and even then it requires training to follow 
it readily. To one who is a throughly com­
petent woodsman, each mark is a real 
blaze of light, quite unmistakable. 
Ifyou wish to blaze a trail correctly, you 
must place your mark accurately on the 
right tree and on the right side of the tree. 
You should not disfigure the trees, and you 
will not, if you do your work as well as the 
Indian. If you go about gashing them in­
discriminately, your work will be an eye­
sore, and besides, everybody will know 
your trail. It should be just enough guide 
for your friends, neatly done, and courting 
no unnecessary publicity. 
The trapper's trail is one more degree 
nearer a concealed blaze. It is blazed on 
each noteworthy tree, twenty to thirty 
paces apart, and even higher than the 
game trail. At· a point opposite the first 
trap, there is a peculiar hack, a double 
hack, or a twig clipped, varying with the 
code of the individual. In any case, you are 
ditected toward the lake shore or river 
bank, where you find an upright stick 
broken off two feet from the ground and 
bent over until it touches the water. This 
means 'the trap is in the water. If the 
broken part does not reach the water, it 
means .look for it on shore, and if a birch­
bark ring is added, it means the trap is in a 
hole. At eath point a certain sign leads you 
approximately near the trap, where you 
get a hint as to its closer whereabouts. 
This kind of trail does not begin at the camp, but at a point which may be orally _described, in ·case the trapper is unable. to visit his traps and must send his wife or 

some _member of his fa~ily. He then e trusts the messenger with his per code, which sometimes includes the for the animal he is trapping. 
The concealed blaze is used by a pan on the war-path, so that another warpan of the same tribe may overtake themor cover their camp. It was not usual to bl a warpath unless another party wa r 
. to follow.. In such a contingency, the fi party le.aves an occasional blaze high up the tree and pointing in the direction which t~-~y are traveling. _Such blazes !9~ly m~de at well-known points and looked for by those who come after. the high blaze is found, other informa is sought for, which may be given means of signs or hieroglyphics in a cealed place. If a party of boys are out for a hike roads which are not well known, and are stragglers, the leader may indicate trail by Indian signs. At the cross-roads may tie a bunch of grass to a low branch the r·ight side of the road he tak~. If leaves the path entirely, he must suck up rod with a knot of grass tied to the bending it in the right direction. Ifat point he desires to return and _meet others · he breaks two opposite t toward one another, as a sign in cast misses then-{. Ifhe wishes his partyto there he draws a circle on the This 'system is used a great dea~ _b Indians when two or three famih roving together in the deep woo~ ·:nl or trapping game. W hen there 1 family, and they are within the dan~ from tribal enemies, the hunter u aJlli cealed blaze for his wife to follow 

IND/AN VOICE 9 

ta special code whose meaning is .1\ ;idop no one but the two. When he 1\,·n to be particularly obscure, he 
, to 

e h. blaze inside a group of trees. It 1 ·e: h1t-angled gash· pointing stra1ght to 
1n 
· ext blaze. . 
c11 
• mber that I was once instructed to 
Ireme ·1 . 
. hunter's trai , together with 

J\\ a W · h
ther boys. e were in t e country
crJI o . h
he rees, who were at war wit us; but ·a abundant, and there was no bet­
11ie \\ 
rr location, therefore our hunters took chance of danger. However, every
rJ d
ut ion was observe . 

)~e of our men had killed a moose late ihe afternoon, and on the next morning bo\' were instructed to find it and n home the meat. The first blaze was rhap half a mile from our camp, on the ide of one of four large birch , rees. \e the blaze were two hacks, and above the mark of an arrowhead. This meant
1 
tollow the blaze two hundred paces in direction of the arrow, and then search another mark. The next arrow pointed onally toward the lake, and two ndred paces further we came out upon lake hore. We followed the shore to a 
n icuous tree, upon the bark of which di covered a small blaze and the figure n animal. About fifty paces from this blaze we found the moose. 
In a prairie ·country, where there are no . ·tone are piled upon the hills or tit' in a m3.nner to give information to who come after. Many of these large de~ or cone~shaped heaps of stones d1covered in the prairie states when lement was made, and some well­wn ones have·been preserved for many 
hi toric landmarks

w3 . 
t' Indians never stand boldly out upon dhop without having first lain flat and ved h
· t e country from a concealed po­lo ee that no danger is in sight. We place the stones so as to convey in­
ence to f · d
Our nen s. One is placed 
Ihe apex po· t. . h . . .

m mg in t e direction inh the tra -J · · 
. ve er is going,· and several
beh
ind the · ·1
c h main pi e show from / he came. If he has seen signs of the · e pla

r id f ces two small stones on i rth e ~ the central stone. If he cannot oneer e ~uts these in front of the cen­
er te~ning an obstacle in the path, in th~t ~ t~ree on the opposite side, rna . b e will return. An old stone 
I: di f ~sed again and again by 1e ··st p acing the stones. T his is the 
azeC:. trail." 
by Charles ·Eastman 


l4'{ 






INDIAN 
:11,1:a•,,• ~• 1• • 11!1!!. 

Five Hundred Years Living Among Savages 
Across the thundering white waters And protection of all living things Across the golden prairie they came And we will be peaceful At first sight they looked lost To all people forever." They were very hungry 
After saying all thisWe fed them from the earth, but The savages raped the landWe did not know their hunger Burned our homes was for our land Murdered and pillaged and injuredTo spill blood upon the world And destroyed the livesTo rape our Mother Earth of the peopleTo make the sky gray with sick And the lives of the childrenClouds where birds dare not fly They killed the buffalo and deerTo make stinking rivers And built dams so the Sprip.g SalmonWhere salmon cannot live. 
Would not return to the rivers ... In their eyes was something ... and the people kill the buffalo 
Something missing! And the Indian dies In their eyes also Kill the salmon and the Indian dies The evil look of the angry wolf Kill, kill, kill . . . In their hearts a wild ugliness And they yet injure the People Their laws are wrong upon wrong 
The white savages are runningPiled like autumn leaves Loose across the landof many seasons Some with badges and riflesTheir children learn to cheat And all with hateAnd to lie They are killing in other nationsAnd to worship false gods For the taste of bloodAnd to band together in large Is good to themGroups of cheaters, liars and They are killing themselvesfalse worshippers 
And their children, in the cities Only they do notThey said: "I am the challenger Kill quickly enough
Of this wild land, I will mould with my hands 

For my people yet suffer A new nation ... 
Our Earth is dying.A new nation with liberty for .all 
Our children must dwell here also. 
D. Wilson 



robert j. conley 

for the memory of Raymond Yellow Thunder 
1. 
were you shocked, america, astonished, at the death of Raymond Yellow Thunder? had you thought that Wounded Knee marked the end of such atrocities? you told yourself, it's true, of course, there have been foul murders. · remember Crazy Horse and Sitting Bull? 
· Osceola? Mangus Colorado? Tsali and Satank? each for america shameful to recall. but all all in the past all over at Wounded Knee. 
2. but no. the race has not yet vanished now at sight of yellow lightning and your sins are not yet past at sound of thunder's crash and names of 1972 middle class americans 
fear the wrath of the heavens are added to the list with 
go deep down hide in storm cellars Custer, ·chivington, Old Hickory. 
remember Raymond' Yellow Thunder. 
3. 

storm clouds gather over whiteman land funnels dip down earth and slash lightning strikes here there here again Yellow Thunder will not be forgot in whiteman land 
4. 
was there some reason, Yellow Thunder, reason for you to die? thrill seeking white men drunken heads reeling with romantic misconceptions of past. Kit Carson. Buffalo Bill. Daniel Boone. Lew Wetzel. I'd like to kill me a red­skin, too. was that the reason? ah, but there can be for your death Raymond Yellow Thunder no excuses no justification no apologies only more shame more guilt for 
5.

white america. anger and indignation 
from earth and sky the brothers Hare have been convicted of manslaughter you say and for the iso­lated act of two w~ need not share the blame. 
Yellow Thunder's been avenged, and justice has been served. but no. there's a ·sick-· ness in Nebraska and all acros& this land that punishment of the brothers Hare 
will not cure 
6. 
last night in clouds . above Missoun i saw flashing ninl YELLOW light 
heard crashing THU 



norman h. russell 
anY winters of my heart 

hOW 01 
. k hoW long how many summers 1a many winters of my heart ho\ hoW long before i shall forget 
~:e terrible years of my youth 
h old man looks and does not smile ~ee ays a yea_r ~ill take away a year oweee! i cry 1 will be an old man! even as i the old man says 
trange! i had never know~ that old men have memories too! 
Norman Russell 

ICORNS RUN WILD 
nicorns run wild Ro e crystal twists A magic horns, They sing rubies & pearls In Gregorian chants P~inting to a homeless god Wit~ their rose crystal spires Their songs piercing the Grove. 
wakening Brother Coyote leeping, ' F n eye open, & two or three closed rom the Day of Creation. ' H~ too, sings then, H~ chants of turquoise skies andering mountains & rivers of grass 'hite Buffalo Maidens and tai-me. 
~~g drowning the gitano C o rolls from his a tie of drea & . . 
Of ms v1s1ons 
mud and
ighu grass,Blin ess, 
D.d as a poet
nnk· ' 
In theinbgl the songs, the chants, ackness of Other Night-

the voices 
first the rain singing the cloud grunting the tree moaning the grass hissing 
then the moon floating through clouds the wind is still the . voices begin 


randall ackley 
(Teacher of Native American Litera­ture, Pembroke, N. C. working to es­tablish Henry Berry Lowry College.) 
Dawn comes quickly With the Sun's dark light Showering the Grove In silver-ruby Gold. 
And unicorns run wild, Rose ccystal spires, twisting, pushing The sky closer To find the Door Where Night and Day Open. 
Coyote chants a tale Of mermaids in an inland Sea, And island of greenfire, While the gitano With ruby-eyes Glowing Murmurs his spell. 

singing croaking 
trilling scraping 
whistling beating 
filling the air of the swamp 
then in the black night 
the moon drops beyond the hill 
suddenly there is silence 
we sleep. 
Norman Russell 

The world grows Dim Until the light Swallows all Men or gods, As Gregorian chants Mix with Keres Songs echoing. 
Left shimmering The glow of nahual Of Rainbows Twin arcs of Iris Growing from and to the Center of the Grove. 
Where Minds, Like Ripe Melons Are swallowed With eternal seeds Of sky and Sea. 
Seeds of the Grove Scattered stars, Novae in Galaxies of Dreams. 
ATTENTION INDIANS 
.... ' ....................~ ................__. ... 
WHY LIVE IN POVE.RTY 
ON YOUR RESERVATION 
WHEN YOU CAN LIVE IN 

POVERTY IN THE BIG CITY? 
try the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
RELOCATION PROGRAM! 
We'I I take you away from the OUTDATED CUSTOMS of your tri­bal homeland and drop you in an 
EXCITING SLUM! You'll be ON YOUR OWN, with­out friends or money. You'll meet INTERESTING PEOPLE: 
* POLICEMEN
* WELFARE WORKERS
* DOPE PUSHERS

* HOODLUMS And we'll train you for a CHAL­ienging career as a DISH­WASHER, WELDER, MECHANIC 
Or VAGRANT! You can live in a beautiful urban , tenement 
YES, YOU'LL LEARN THE EX­CITEMENT OF LIVING IN A CITY­OVERCROWDING! POLLUTION! 
CRIME! 

LET US TAKE YOU AWAY FROM ALL THOSE BACKWARDS INDIANS AND MAKE AN AMERICAN OUT OF YOU! 
contact your BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS TODAY!! 
(Taken from The American Indian, 
publication of the American Indian 
Center of San Francisco.) 



Designer Wanted 

WANTED: Cherokee artist with know­ledge of Cherokee seal and Cherokee language, to produce a replica of the Cherokee seal, for a private individual. If interested, contact Indian Voice at 
P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, Ca. 95051, Phone (408) 294-3740. 
The Alaska Land Claim Bill, which passed the House and Senate on . December 14 last year, and which will affect the future of every Native American in the state, is without a doubt the most talked-about land settlement in the history of the United States. The bill itself, which had been hanging fire since the U. S. "bought" Alaska from Russia in 1867, represents a victory for the economic interests over the desires of the Natives. 
When Secretary of State Seward closed the deal with Russia which "bought" the state in 1867, it was ·· promptly dubbed his "Folly." Who would want the 586,000 square miles of ice and tundra of the state?, people asked. 
As it turns out, the state is particularly rich in many resources, and has enabled the Natives -Eskimos; Aleuts; Tlingits, Haidas, Tsimshians, and other Indians -to live with relative ease for thousands of years. Reindeer, caribou, wolf, grizzlies, foxes, owls, falcons, and wolverines roam the land. Swans, gulls, 



THE ALASKA. 

geese, terns, ducks and other · the air and many have their grounds within sight ofthe oil being built on the North Slope. 
In the rivers, streams, bays, Pacific Ocean (which is kept the Japanese Current), salmon, trout, candlefish, clams, m1 US11SI.. other fish abound. The time of runs in the spring is a traditi?nal plenty and gorging, for whi native alike. 
When the territory of Alaska quired" by the U. S., !here about a native land claims but the "powers that were" any settlement for over 100 Y' 
. es
meantime, many of the na~tY displaced by the new immt still almost all cases, were, and. the bottom of the economic totem pole. 
The first great rush into took place-in the end of the when thousands of pros into the territory to pros~ small percentage of them 0 



L;\ND CLAIMS CASE 
The Native Again Gets a Raw Deal 
,·.i;~ 

'\;Vally McNamee--Newdweek 
Interior Secretary Rogers C. B. Morton the North Slope oil, Alaska's public is the official responsible for regulating lands, the Native Claims Case -and 
old to live on while they were there. A ger, although still small percentage found no gold, but stayed and me teaded in the territory, and their few thousand descendants still live in the 
te. But most did neither, and left hen they did not find gold. 
The state did begin to change, 
Wever, as a result ofthe gold rush. For first time, the native population _gan to be displaced by the im­grants, who set up cities which me the most expensive places to live th~ North American continent. Like e~can~ travelling everywhere, the y ~:m.igrants insisted on living as d in the lower 48 states and the
of th · ' 
ltlllts . e items they needed was and t~ very high. Everything in the cities co~~ark ~f the traditional U.S. on r of t~ed 1~ many cases with the 
But th e native culture. 
_ere has never been a great rush 
e state. Most of the Anglos of me there were uneducated, the Staieop}~ who could not make it in 
With their limited abilities, 

settling disputes of the parties. 
and found a home in the wide-open frontier atmosphere that still prevails in the state. · Walter Hickel, the former Secretary of the Interior, and the man to whom the natives had to look for protection during the first onslaughts on their rights in the late l 960's, following the discovery of oil, was typical; a product of the Midwest, little-educated, but with the drive and determination to succeed in the wide-open state, Hickel has made millions since the Second World War in the construction business, and proceeded to win the Governor's of­fice in the 1966 election. Hickel has been pushing for years for the exploitation of the oil fields. 
It was the oil, of course,-that put the pressure on the state legislators in Juneau and the Congress in Washington to settle the Alaska Native land claims. When oil was discovered on the North Slope in 1967, there was an immediate rush to get the oilfields into production. At the same time, of course, the fighting in the Middle East, from where the U.S. gets some of its oil, had the oil tycoons worried. The Arab oil countries could expel them at any time, they thought, and they would then be left without suf­ficient oil to meet the nation's needs. 
The United States now uses about 14 million barrels of oil per day. Of this, only 10 million barrels is produced in the U. S. and the rest must come from other places around the world. If these other places suddenly become inacces­sible, the U. S. would face an oil power shortage. To solve the problem, the U. 
S. should develop the oil on the North Slope of Alaska, above the Arctic Circle -so they said. 
Native leaders in Alaska, who had been pressing for a settlement of the land claim for some time, took this op­portunity to tie the demands for oil into the demands for land claims. Since native title to the state had never been extinguished, the leaders sought and won injunctions effectively stopping the oil exploration, and vowed they would hold on in the courts until the land claim 
(Over) 




ALASKA 
(Continued) 

was settled. After the injunctions had 
effectively halted the oil work, some 
high-powered Washington lawyers 
suddenly became available for the 
natives to retain -Ramsey Clark, 
Thomas Kuchel, Arthur Goldberg, 
among others -and the Congress ofthe 
United States suddenly found itself in a 
position of having to listen to the 
natives. 
Former Secretary of the Interior 
Stewart Udall had first listened to the 
Natives' pleas in 1966. He "froze" all 
public lands in Alaska until the natives' 
claims were settled, and these claims. 
were still pending a year later when oil 
was discovered and the rush was on for 
the North Slope. But since the state 
could . not sell or lease the lands, no 
matter how badly the legislators in 
Juneau wanted to, the oil drilling was 
effectively s.topped. 
What To Do? 

At this point, the oil companies, 
Congress, the Interior Department, and 
the White House got into the act, trying 
to find the easiest and the cheapest way 
to get the Natives out of the way so the 
oil companies could get to the oil. A 
consortium of seven oil companies, led 
by Atlantic-Richfield, formed the 
Alyeska Pipeline Service Company to 
lobby for, and eventually build, an 8. )­
mile pipeline across the face ofthe state, 
from the North Slope to the ice-free port 
of Valdez on the southeast coast. And 
the lobbyists took up permanent 
residence in Juneau and Washington; 
literally millions have been spent to get 
the native land claims out of the way, 
and to get the Secretary of the Interior 
to issue a permit for the building of the 
pipeline. · Much was at stake in the pending 
legislation. In addition to the benefits 
from the oil, the future ofthe entire state 
in many ways got dragged into the fight. 
When it was admitted to state in 1959, 
Alaska was given the rights to select 103 
million acres out of the state's total of 
385 million for its own usage. Since the 
I 
· total population ofthe state is very small -280,000 people, about the population of Des Moines, Iowa -the government in Juneau before last year had not seen the need to withdraw much land for the state's usage; 25 million had been withdrawn, and the North Slope, with all its oil, was not among the choices the state had made before the natives succeeded in getting the lands frozen by Udall in 1966. 
The conservationists also got into the fight with both feet. Like the oil developers and the state officials, they were opposed to the natives getting much land either. They wanted the land set aside for national parks, wildlife refuges, national forests, and wild rivers, and fought for protection of wildlife much harder than they did for protection of native life. In the end they succeeded in limiting the natives' claims to lands in "restricted areas," (the four categories mentioned above). 
·Under the terms or~setJJeroeoLif one of the 220 native villages is located in one of the park or wildlife areas designated by the Secretary of the Interior, that village can only select a maximum of three townships (69,120 
· acres) within the area. What this represents is a compromise between the conservationists, · who wanted the natives to be extremely limited in their selection of land in areas conservationists wanted preserved because of the danger to animal species, and the natives, who wanted the rights to their traditional lands. 
What is the Meaning Of the Settlement? 
If the U. S. had to formulate a policy for Alaskan Natives that would com­bine all the failures of U. S. policy in regard to natives ofthe lower 48, it could not do much worse than the Alaskan Natives Land Claims Settlement. The bill combines the worst features ­termination of federal responsibility, allotment of tribal lands in fee simple title -of U.S. Indian policy into a new 
' form? ~nd combines them With . sophisticated and confusing hi 
. h" COl'J)o
str~ctu~es, m w 1ch every 
native 1s now a shareholder. 
. At t?e end of 20 years, most of 
tnbal nghts of the natives will ha 
eroded. At that time -Decern~ 
1
1991 -native land will becorne s to local and state property tax undeveloped and unleased lands also become subject to the sarne This feature will insure, as it baa in many cases with terminated Ind" the lower 48, that the lands resources subject to taxation will be lost to the natives through being to pay taxes. And the buyers will be same people who now would liketo able to get at native resources · through acquiring them under public land la;ws. In effect, the wolf been kept from the door for 20 
During an 11-year period, a fi payment of $462.5 million will be to 12 regional corporations estab · under the act. A better way could have been devised to keep the people apart, because they traditi have many cross-tribal differen many tribes do not trust the other Individual payment will be cule-it would amount to less than per person in the last and · payment period, 1990. The bulk of payment would be to the corporations. 
This seems to many to be a plan; at one stroke it includes theS native Alaskans in the corporate ture of America, gives them st their own corporations, and su~ gives them control of thelt resources. But there is only ?~enal the· plan, as far as the trad1!10 sistence living of the native 1n the village is concerned; the control corporations will be in the hands professional Washington bure& and their cronies and figureb acculturated Indians who ba through the whiteman's sch0015d~ of the figureheads also understand the complicated 
IND/AN VOICE 15 



d to them by Congress, but they nde good deal out of it personally,
\·e a .. 
aren't complammg. 0 t as is the case in the lower 48,
Ju · 'd 'f
acculturated nat1v~s 1 e~tl y mo.re ith their white boss~s m busmess smts they do with their own people, and ma~Y frankly fail to get along in their 
e billages. We can expect many · 
~ of fighting between the traditional people and the acculturated people, \ r the uses of the land, the ways .to ·develop" it, and the ways to preserve 1t. 
Cheated Again 

The total amount of oil lying under orth Slope, which ostensibly longs to all Alaskans, is variously es­ted at from 15 billion to 50 billion 
1. Taking the lower figure, with 
de oil now selling for $3 a barrel, the tal value of the oil is at the very least Sbillion. The Land Claims Act limits 
hare the natives will get from this ount to just over one percent (1%); ycan draw subsurface royalties from land they select up to a value of$500 
million, after which no royalties accrue othem. The state of Alaska, on the other d stands to make at a minimum 15 this amount in royalties. The 
t. estimate for the total royalties 
t WIii accrue to the state once the 
pcline is pumping the oil through to aldez.at the rate of two million gallons day, 1s. $300,000 a year. And using the . estimate of the total again-15 on barrels-the total take for the ~ of Alaska will amount to $7.5 ti on. So, while it appears that the ves ~re getting immense sums-the pc~ In the lower 48 have headlined 62·5 million settlement-in reality }·,:,re only getting 6% of the money 
, ,ts wh ·1
PUla : z e they represent 20% ofthe 
le fhon. This round was won by the 0 Alaska. 

Round Two

1
t kais est'
1mated that the natives of now use from 60 to 120 million 
acres of land for subsistence, and they are forced to live at the subsistence level by the racist policies ofthe state ofAlas­ka, the Bureau ofIndian Affairs, and the federal government in general. They have been pushed out ofthe rich areas of the state by the new immigrants, and if they live in the cities, almost invariably they live on the fringes in a shack, with no running water, electric lights, or in­door plumbing. 
The initial proposal of the Interior Department in the early rounds of the fighting over the settlement was for 10 million acres of land and payment of $500 million to the natives. This proposal, by Interior Secretary Hickel, former governor ofAlaska, was rejected outright by the Natives, largely through the efforts of the Alaskan Federation of Natives. Immediately after they sent delegates to Congress with the rejection, they also engaged some high-powered lawyers familiar to the Washington scene, and suddenly their case had instant validity. They were listened to in Washington for the first time, and spent many weeks lobbying for a fair and just settlement for their claim. 
In the final bill, the Natives will receive 40 million acres of land, and a potential for $962.5 million in money payments. The 220 native villages have priority rights on the first 18 million acres to be selected (250 million of the 375 million total is still federally owned); the state has second priority after the approximately 18 million acres are selected; and the native regional corporations have the third priority, getting to choose some 22 million acres. The native total will thus be about 40 million acres, about 11% of the total land area of the state, for 20% of the citizens. 
The conservationists, meanwhile, succeeded in having the Secretary ofthe · Interior given the authority to set aside up to 80 million acres to be "preserved" as National Parks, National Forests, Wildlife Refuges, and Wild and Scenic . Rivers, the four categories of"restricted areas." Thus the conservationists succeeded in having twice as much land set aside for "animal preservation" as the Alaskan natives got in subsistence land. And the natives can only receive the benefits from mineral rights, at the rate of two percent (2%), of $500,000 worth, after which they forego any further claim on mineral rights. 
In addition, if any native village is located within any of the restricted areas, that village is limited to th~ee (3) 
· townships selection in the restricted area, regardless of the former boun­daries and limits of the natives' land usages. A maximum of two million acres formerly in wildlife refuges could be patented to native villages, and the conservationists failed to prove one case of environmental disaster could be blamed on the· natives. Their hints 0: pending disaster to the refuges should the Natives get them was completely 
· unwarranted. Round two was won by the conser­vationists. 

Round Thre·e 

When the oil companies started drilling on the North Slope, at first they brought in all their labor, with many of the workers coming from the States and staying for several months at a time, with relatively high pay because of the isolation and the extreme cold, saving their money, and returning to the States 
. with a bankroll. At the insistence of the local natives, enforced by court orders, the oil companies started employing local natives. The companies' widely advertised advantages to the Natives of oil exploration is thus pure propaganda; the natives would never have benefited from employment by the oil drillers if they hadn't gone to court to sue the comp~nies for discrimination in hiring. 
In addition to discriminating against the Natives in hiring, the oil companies and the state succeeded in preventing the natives from sharing in the royalties on the North Slope, the site of the huge oil deposit. None of the royalties from 
(See page 36) 





THE BURNING SCAR 
Marshal White raised himself up horse a couple of friendly pats on the could com~a~d a fairly good vie from the waterhole from which he had rump. the mountam m the only direction been drinking and rubbed his wet hands "All right, old boy," he said out loud, which he figured an approach fi over his sun-darkened face and into his "it's time to be moving along. We got to above would be practical. He · 
really expect an attack from Red

red whiskers. He put his hat back on his catch up with that damned savage out head and patted the rump of his horse, there." in the night as it would be much 8• which was still drinking, as he began to He climbed back into the saddle and for the Indian just to wait for him scan the horizon around him. He knew started again toward the mountains. some good spot for an ambush. Still, that the fugitive Red Hand was out there The sun was already going down had this strange feelingabout them somewhere not too far away. He had when Marshal White reached the tains and this strange fear and s 
been following Red Hand for so long foothills, and he halted his horse Determined to put these thoughts out his head, he built a small fire and coo
that he felt that he could almost sense looking up into the mountains with a a meal and made coffee. Then, lea
the Apache's every move. It had been so strange fear in his heart. He had felt fear the fire barely burning, he moved
long that White could scarcely before, and without shame, for only a saddle and blanket along the edge of
remember the time when his one con­fool is without fear, but this time he also big rock away from the light of the
suming desire had not been to track felt shame. He could sense the and settled himself down there for
down and kill the renegade-he who movements of the Apache but could not night. His pistol was off and lyingin
had refused to accept the paternalism of sense that Red Hand was near enough at dirt beside his right hand. The rifle
the Great White Father in Washington the moment to cause him any immediate leaning against the rock, the butt 
and live in peace on the reservation, but danger. What he felt, rather, was that the pistol belt, the barrel alongsidepreferred to live the life of a hunted Red Hand was everywhere at head. His back against the big rockanimal, killing and stealing to live. It once-that he was far up in the moun­. the saddle, White was recliningwould not be long, White thought, tains, but that the rocks nearby were in a sitting position as he pulled thebefore he would reach the mountains; watching for him and somehow relaying dle blanket up around his shothey had long been in view and he was messages on up to the fugitive. It was a carefully leaving his right hand outgetting close. Red Hand would be there foolish fear, and for that White was under it, and settled into the rock ·
waiting for him feeling the same need to ashamed. ding to get some sleep.
kill as the marshal felt. "Hold up, old boy," he said, and again Try as he would he couldn't get
"I'll find the son of a bitch this time," he was ashamed, for he was talking to he thought to himself. "I'll find him up ·, his horse not as he usually did to com­eyes to stay shut. He kept thinking he saw a figure in the darkness m
there or he'll find me, but this time, one fort the dumb animal or to drive away or just on the verge ofmovement,way or another, I'll get him." his own loneliness or boredom, but for would stare at the mysterious formHe almost unconsciously pulled the the same reason a man alone at night on he would discover it to be a rocktail of his shirt out of his trousers and a dark street will whistle-todrive away mesquite tree. Everything aroundran his fingers over the slick scar which fear. 
became alive, and because he kne.

had been left there long ago by a bullet "Whoa,'' he said, "ain't no sense in us Red Hand was the only._thing.ali
from Red Hand's rifle. He had ·other goin' on up in them mountains this time miles around, every rock and t~scars, but this one was somehow special. o' day. Gonna be dark soon and that sound or movement in the DI
It had never stopped burning, and he heathen bastard could be anywhere. became Red Hand.
was always conscious of its presence We'd better camp right here for the · "This is crazy," he said to ~mse)f.
about three inches to the left of his night and get a fresh start with the he realized that he had said it outnavel. He often felt, even though he was daylight first thing in the morning." 
but he continued the same WI~·fully clothed, that people passing him on He dismounted and tied the horse to a crazy. He ain't much more'n a .

the street could see the scar, and he was small mesquite tree not far away from a ashamed. He would always be ashamed huge rock which he thought to make his can't let 'im get t~ me like t~ until he had killed Red Hand and the lodging and protection for the night. He prob'ly up there somewhere ngbt scar had stopped burning. took off the saddle and blanket and sleepin' half nekkid right on ~b~ 
He bent over to fill his canteen from dragged them over to the rock. From and he can't even feel 'em dt b the waterhole, and then he gave his this spot, his back to the great rock, he his goddamn red hide. He's pro 

..... ..... ... ; ..... .................... ...... .. ............. ... ...................._.......-.........-... .............................. . 
.... 

.... 


upper o' lizards 'n' ~or~ ~oads. A1oddamn animal. Hell, 1t am t hardly no different from huntin' down a coy­
e. I can't let 'im get to me like this. in't none o' the others ever done it." 
Hi left hand had worked itself under the hirt and was fingering the tender 
r. He kept thinking and staring into the darkness, and finally he fell asleep from exhaustion against the great rock. 
2 

When Marshal White woke up in the morning it was still dark, and he woke in a fright. He felt like a soldier who had fallen asleep on watch. "A foolish notion," he thought after he had gotten over his initial fright, "I meant to get 
me sleep." He made some breakfast ~d ?me coffee, and then broke up his ~tie camp. By then the sun was begin­mng to show itself, and White saddled up his ?orse and headeq up into the 
mountams. He was still climbing at noon with the run boun_cing off the rocks above and r~t ofhim and striking him in the eyes, n he suddenly heard, as if from 
nowhere as ·f f 
. ' 1 rom everywhere at once
hnll h ' 
rt w oop and the simultaneous


:rt of ~ 
rifle. The bullet struck the nd directly in front of White's 
rse and th t ·r·
so ra; . e _em 1ed animal reared up 00 its hmd legs that it fell over 
c ;~~~s and tu~bled down the rocky to flin m~untam. White was barely p from g h~mself fr~e of his saddle to He serambJ~emg earned along with it.1J to the safe_ty ofthe largest 
· u get to and Jerked his pistol 
hol t . 
s er, lookmg up and 
ere was n . . 
o one m sight He 
own b h" . · 
Which e md him, where his . seemed to be in con­
am w l . 
w ' _as . ymg on one side. ~ kas his nfle, still in the sad­
. ne n h 

to get to it e~ t at he would not be Without making a good
mself. 

White huddled there against his rock for several minutes, the fingers ofhis left hand unconsciously fingering the scar, until he could no longer stand the agonized whimperings and snorts of the hurt horse. He had to move slightly in order to get off a good shot which he knew would kill the animal, but he felt that he must do it. He turned and raised himself just a bit, taking aim with his pistol, and then he fired, killing the horse instantly, but just as he did there was another crack, almost an echo to his own shot, and a bullet smashed into the rock which he was using for cover~ sen­ding bits and pieces of it slashing into the side of his face. He let out a yell and dropped back down to safety, grabbing the side of his face with his left hand. When he took his hand away he saw that it was bloody, but he also saw that it was trembling, and he realized that he was very frightened. Then he heard a loud 
laugh from above, and he knew that it was Red Hand. "Hey, lawman," said the. laughing voice. 
White tried to calm himself down. He tried to locate where the voice was coming from, and he thought that he could tell reasonably well. He knew that he would need his rifle. Without it he could not hope to wage a successful bat­tle with Red Hand as far away as he must be. 
"Lawman? You there, lawman?" 
White lay still. 
"Hey, lawman, I don't think I kill you that time." 
White didn't answer. Several very long minutes passed before White thought that he heard a movement in the rocks above him, and he brought himself up quickly jerking the rifle from 
(Over) 




SCAR 
(Continued) 
its boot and up to his shoulder. He was in position to fire before he even saw his target-before he was even sure that it woulc;l really be there, but it was. Red Hand was moving slowly down the in­cline toward him, and White acted quic­kly, firing as fast as he could. His first shot missed the mark and only sent Red . Hand scampering for shelter, but he could see the second one tear into the shiney bare back of the Apache as he . sprang into t};le rocks like some 
wounded wild animal. 
''I got 'im," White said to himself. But 
still he reamined behind the dead horse 
and waited. 
"Lawman, you got me. Why you 
don't come on up J;tere and finish me, 
lawman? You got I me good. Come on 
up. I can't do nothing now." 
"The lyin' son of a bitch," muttered 
White, "he's dyin' most likely, but he 
still wants to kill me first. Well, I can 
wait." 
The marshal had been leaning with 
his. left hand' on the carcass ·of the dead 
h.orse and without noticing it had had it 
on and in the hole which his bullet had 
made, and it had become coated with 
the horse's blood. The horse's blood 
mixed with the blood he had gotten 
there on his hand earlier from his own · 
face. He rolled over on his back and 
l~aned against the horse's belly to wait, 
and he began again to finger the scar' 
absentmindedly, smearing it with the 
mixed blood. 
After a wait ofseveral long minutes he 
heard the voice of Red Hand begin to rise u p into the air above the mountains, and it seemed as if it were coming from each and every rock and from out ofthe clouds. It was singing-a loud and strange song. A mournful sound. 
"A death song," thought White. "It's about Goddamn time. I've killed him." 
And then he found himself wondering what he would do with himself now that he had killed Red Hand, and a strange emptiness came ~ver him;the_vo_lume of the song grew and grew and the mar­shal's eyes grew wet with tears as he fond led the smooth barrel of his Win­chester rifle, leaving sticky red hand prints all along the length of it. Then as suddenly as the song had begun, it stopped. White quickly turned around facing uphill again, and he saw Red Han d bring himself to a full standing position on the rock behind which he had been standing, and he could tell that it wa s taking all the strength left in the Indian's body to hold himself upright. 
"Kill me, you God damn White-eye," shouted Red Hand. 
White started walking slowly up towa rd Red Hand, holding his rifle loosely in his left hand by the barrel and dragging the butt along iri the dirt beside him. He was staring at the beautiful, almo st naked bronze body swaying there above him, blood running over the stom ach and down the thighs. He was stum bling over rocks as he moved slowly up the mountainside, for he couldn't take his eyes off the dark vision of beauty dying there before him-the dark vision which he so hated. 
Red Hand was returning the stare, 
but with bewildered eyes. "Kill me," he 
pleaded-ordered. 

. But by then White was right 
him, and he dropped his rifle ground and reacheq out withto hands, placing his palms on the bare breast before him. The SIJl began to move down the breast to stot?ach through the streaming b until they found the loin cloth 
pulled it loose from the body leaving beautiful, bloody, dying man pletely nude there on the side of. mountain. Red Hand's eyes wide and his face twisted in a tioning grimace. With his last strength he snarled and raised hands to go for the throat of marshal, but he collapsed-dead antis falling over White's sho White embraced the body, holding tightly enough so that it slid very down the length of his own covering his clothing in front blood. As the body of Red Hand pied over backwards at his feet,its outstretched at its sides, White hand went up to his mouth, and stepped back in terror of the bea dead man and ofhis own feeling for and he felt the scar three inches to left of his navel begin to burn as it never burned before. He jerked revolver out of his belt and em into the face and body of Red screaming as he fired, and when be no more shots to fire he threw the away into the rocks and sank to knees beside the body, curling fo with his face in his hands, and be sob convulsively. 




INDIAN VOICE 19 


INDIAN PUBLICATIONS 

I d·an publishing world, while
The n 1 . • 
h most affluent group gomg, is not. ~~eless strong spiritually, and very n ,e if. d Publications range from
d1,er ie . 
w letters to tribal newspapers, to nc publications of museums and 
~ue A 
d. i·nterest groups, to a press s­
in 1an-. . p 
. 1. n (Amencan Indian ress
,a 10 . . 
·ation· see list) to h1stonca1quar­
oc1 , . (I d'
rlie to monthly magazmes n ian \'oice).
The e publications are gotten out regularly by some one or soI?e group ho have a strong love for the1r people, 
and want to try to keep them together and in contact with each other. Some are distributed nationally, and some are handed out locally. Practically all of them need financial and moral support. 
There are over 200 of them. Some seek subscribers, and some only want subscribers from within their own tribe. If you want to subscribe to one of them, the best thing to do is to write to the editor and ask about their policy and rates. 
For your information, they are (al­most all) printed below. 

. BORIGINE P. 0. Box 892 Gallup, N. M. 87301 
. K.WESASNE NOTES 
Box 435 
Rooseveltown, N. Y. 13683 
· LASKANATIVEBROTHERHOOD 1521 16th. Avenue E. ttle, Wash. 98102 
THE AMERICAN BAPTIST VOICE C O Dr. B. Frank Belvin O mulgee, Okla. 74447 
THE AMERICAN INDIAN merican Indian Center255 Valencia St. n Francisco, Calif. 94103 
\fERICAN INDIAN CRAFTS & CULTURE 
10 M
Pa ammoth Ave. norama City, Calif. 91402 
p bERICAN INDIAN HORIZONCh ·Box 18 . Urch Street Station cw York, New York 10008 
AMERICAN INDIAN LAW NEWSLETTER Univ. of N. M. School of Law 1915 Roma Ave. N. E. Albuquerque, N. M. 87106 
AMERICAN INDIAN NEWS Lawrence Meade, Editor P. 0. Box 217 Ft. Washakie, Wyo. 82514 
AMERICAN INDIAN 
PRESS ASSOC. 1346 Connecticut Avenue, N. W. Room 306 
Washington, D. C. 20036 
AMERICANS BEFORE COLUMBUS National Indian Youth Council 3102 Central S. E. Albuquerque, N. M. 87106 
THE AMERINDIAN 1263 W. Pratt no. 909 Chicago, Ill. 60626 
ANICA NEWS 1306 Second Ave. Seattle, Wash. 98101 THE APACHE SCOUT Mescalero Reservation Mescalero, N. M. 88340 
THE ARCTIC REPORTER P. 0. Box 253 Barrow, Alaska 99723 
AWATHM AWAHAN C/ 0 Salt River Tribal Office Rt. 1, Box 120 Scottsdale, Ariz. 85251 
THE BIRNEY ARROW Don Hollowbreast, Editor P. 0. Box 552 Birney, Mont. 59102 
THE BLUE CLOUD QUARTERLY Blue Cloud Abbey Marvin, S. D. 57251 
THE BROWNING SENTINEL P. 0. Box 340 Browning, Mont. 59417 
THE BUCKSKIN 
B. B. Scott, Editor Creek Councilman Eufaula, Okla. 74432 
UNIV. OF SO. DAK. BULLETIN Institute of Indian Studies Vermillion, S. D. 57069 
CAMP CRIER Sarah Kill Eagle, Editor Fort Belknap Agency Harlem, Mont. 59526 
THE CHEROKEE NATION NEWS P. 0. Box 119 Tahlequah, Okla. 74464 
CHEROKEE EXAMINER P. 0. Box 687 South Pasadena, Calif. 91030 
(Over) 



INDIAN PUBS 
(Continued) 
CHEROKEE ONE FEATHER P. 0. Box 501 Cherokee, N. C. 28719 
.THE CHEROKEE REPORT 605 E. Downing Tahlequah, Okla. 74464 
CHEYENNE-ARAPAHOE BULLETIN Ralph Beard, Editor 108 E. Cavanaugh El Reno, Okla. 73036 
CHICAGO WARRIOR American: indian Center 1630 W. Wilson Ave. Chicago, Ill. 60640 
CHOCTAW TIMES P. 0. Box 12392 Nashville, Tenn. 37212 
CHOCTAW COMMUNITY NEWS Philadelphia, Miss. 39350 
CITY SMOKE SIGNALS 1114 W. 6th St. Sioux City, Iowa 51101 
CLEVELAND CRIER Cleveland American Indian Center 2600 Church Ave. Cleveland, Ohio 44113 
THE COYOTE Tecumseh Center Univ. of California Davis, Calif. 95616 
THE CROSS & THE CALUMET St. Augustine Center 4710 No. Sheridan Chicago, Ill. 60640 
CROW AGENCY FLASHES Crow Agency, Mont. 59022 
Di:r+,iE'--BAA-HANI P. 0. Box 527 · Fort Defiance, Ariz. 86504 
DRUMBEAT MAGAZINE P. 0. Box 3504 Tulsa, Okla. 74152 
DRUMBEATS Institute of American Indian Art Bureau of Indian Affairs Santa Fe, N. M. 87501 THE EAGLE'S EYE 
Brigham Young Univ. 
132 F.0.B. 
Provo, Utah 84601 
EARLY AMERICAN 
Calif. Indian Educ. Assoc. 
P. 0. Box 4095 
Modesto, Calif. 95352 
FIVE FEATHERS NEWS Tribe of Five Feathers 
P. 0. Box W Lompoc, Calif 93436 
FLANDREAU SPIRIT 
Flandreau Indian Vocational School Flandreau, S. D. 57028 
FORT APACHE SCOUT P. 0. Box 898 Whiteriver, Ariz. 85941 
FORT HALL NEWSLETTER Ft. Hall Agency Bureau of Indian Affairs Fort Hall, Idaho 83203 

GILA RIVER NEWS 
P. 0. Box 97 
Sacaton, Ariz. 85247 
GREAT LAKES AGENCY NEWS 
Great Lakes Indian Agency 
Ashland, Wis. 54806 
GUTS & TRIPE 
P. 0. Box 18421, Capitol Hill Station Denver, Colorado 80218 
HI-LINE HERALD 426 First St. Havre, Mont. 59501 
HOPI ACTION NEWS Winslow Mail Winslow, Ariz. 8604 7 


ICAP 
Flathead Reservation 
Dixon, Mont. 59831 
ICIA NEWSLETTER American Indian Center 2224 Leavenworth St. Omaha, Nebr. 68102 
ILOTAN 
M. D. Meiwner 5 Tudor City PL New York, New York 10017 THE INDIAN CI O Birgil Kills Straight Pine Ridge, S. D. 57?70 
INDIAN AFFAIRS Assoc. on American Indian Affairs, Inc. 432 Park Ave. So. New York, New York 10016 
INDIAN AFFAIRS Brigham Young Univ. Provo, Utah 84601 
INDIAN CENTER NEWS 1900 Boren Ave. Seattle, Wash. 98101 

INDIAN ECHO Canadian Dept. of Justice Penitentiary Branch Ottawa, Canada 
INDIAN EXTENSION NE Cooperative Ext. Service 

New Mexico State Univ. Las Cruces, N. M. 88001 
INDIAN HIGHWAYS Cook.Christian Training 708 So. Lindon Lane Tempe, Arizona 85281 
THE INDIAN HISTORIAN American Indian Historical Society, Inc. 1451 Masonic Ave. San Francisco, Calif. 94117 
INDIAN LEADER Haskell Junior College Bureau of Indian Affairs Lawrence, Kansas 66044 
INDIAN LIAHONA Indian Committee, CJCLDS 115 E So. Temple St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 
THE INDIAN MAILMAN Arizona Indian Assoc. 4402 N. First Ave. Phoenix, Ariz. 85013 
INDIAN NEWS Information Services Div. Indian Affairs Br. Centennial Tower 400 Laurier Ave. W. Ottawa 4 Ontario, Canada 
.rsee 








Stickers 


• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••••• '! ••••••••••••••••-· • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •••• 
A magazine normally exists on money from two sources-subscriptions, and



\l\Dlllft 
advertising. Indian Voice has basically .. only one source-subscriptions. Our adver­
POUIER tising is only a small fraction of the total magazine. This means you, the reader, have a tremendously high percentage of 


readable material from which to choose. But it also means that we, the staff, must find other ways to support the hole left by the lack ofads. 
One way we can do this is to sell bumper 
stickers. The ones above are on sale from us at 50¢ each. For your very own bumper sticker, send 50¢ in cash, check, or money
Qffl811CCI IS~• }1'_ 
order, to: INDIAN VOICE
IRDIAR COURTRY 
P.0. Box 2033 . Santa Clara, Ca. 95051 
................ ······'!················ ... ········-············· ...... . 



RELAX 111111GRATIOff LA{IJS 
~ ti-•.., IIIIAII Ill. 
Indians explored America Others exploited America 

Custer ~ was masochistic 

. (Photography by Mario Tarabini) Poster available from Indian Voice, at $1.00 each, address P.0. Box 2033, Santa Clara, Ca. 95051. Inquire about quantity rates. 




IND/AN VOICE 23 

SEMINOLE TOWNS: Their Locations Before the Seminole Wars 


____.,-­
The problem of the composition of the Seminoles just previous to the be­
. ning of the Seminole War of 1835 · one of identification of the various towns and "bands." By the term, 
nd," one could indicate the followers of a certain Muskegean or Hitchiti chieftain who left Georgia and Alabama to settle in Florida. The identification of the Seminole bands rests upon the · entification of the chieftain and what 
· linguistic 'affiliation was to certain towns in the area. Identification of-the Hitchiti speak-
among the Seminole rests upon information on the location of the Hitchiti villages prior to the removal. The towns ~peaking the Hitchiti lan­~ge consisted of Apalachicola, Chiaha, Hitchiti, Sawokli, Tamathli, and Yamasee, according to Swanton. Only Chiaha and Hitchiti towns had ~er towns formed from thetn. The ikasukis were an off shoot of Chiaha · and Oconee, Okmulgee, Okitiyagana: ~d Okawaigi were offshoots of
H
•tchiti. The Hitchiti speakers in Florida seem 
to 
have · 
come m two waves. One group 


~ed on the Alachua Plain and an­. r ~roup was on the Chattahoochee 
· er 10 the beginning of their migra­
:· The first emigrants from Oconee 
ed the Alachua Plain from 1750 
ards Thes H' h' . k .
hided · e 1tc 1tI spea ers m­l ani h ~epresentatives from Sawokli, t'L.: aht h, Apalachicola Hitchiti and
~,ua a A ' ' 
do...· · PParently the Oconee groups 
..i1nated th 

e scene: Y amassee were present in 1777 at Cuscowilla as slaves of the Hitchti-speaking Oconees. This then makes the picture complete, with representatives of all the original Lower Creek Hitchiti-speaking towns of Georgia. The Hitchiti speaking peoples on the lower Chattahoochee were the Chiaha-derived Mikasukis. In 1767 there was an offshoot of Okmulgee town on the Suwannee River. 
The War and Peace affiliations of the various towns is very important in determining the behavior of the various Hitchiti speaking groups in later times. Apalachicola was called Talwa Hlaco, or Big Town by the Muskogee speaking peoples and was a peace town. Ok "'1.Ulgee was a peace town, and one COU1L ~xtend this classification to all of the h itchiti town offshoots, includ­ing Oconee. Ylikasuki, as a Chiaha off­shoot, would t ·: classified as a War town on the basis of its behavior. There­fore Chiaha is also a Red or War town. The classification of Sawokli and Tamathili is doubtful. Thus the Hitchiti speaking towns of the White or Peace group would consist of Appalachicola and Hitchiti and the War Group of Chiaha Oconee, Mikasuki, and Okmul­gee represent the major towns that contributed to the Hitchiti-speaking Florida groups, and one could say that those on the Alachua Plain were of the Peace Group and the Mikasukis were of the War Group. 
A review of the settlement pattern of the Hitchiti speaking villages in Florida will aid in identification of the later Seminole bands following the Seminole War of 1835. The first arrivals were from Oconee, who in 1767 established Lockway or Lachewie, which was lo­cated at Gainesville, Alachua County. It was located in the southern part of the county near the present Micanopy Junction. The second village, settled in 1774, was called first Cuscowilla and later Mikanopy's Town. It was also located near Micanopy Junction, and was ten miles south of Lockway. Both villages were abandoned after 1814, when Lockway people moved to the site of Suwannee Old Town and Cusco­willa peopie moved to Pilaklakala and Oklahumpka. Pilaklakala was a Negro­Indian town near Center Hill, Sumter County and Oklahumpka is directly north of Pilaklakala near Colemen in 
the same county. 
. The Yamassee were present at 1Cusco­willa in 1774 as slaves of the Oconees. Their first known settlement was at Wacahouta, near the northeast corner of Levy County. In 1823 the group moved to Y alaka, thirty five miles south of Lake Dexter on the St. Johns River, near the present Deland or Lake Munroe. In 1835 this same group moved to Jernigans Island in Lake T ohopekahga. The Y amassees were Hitchiti speakers, and were naturally allied with the Oconee groups nearby. 
In Northern Florida, the Hitchiti villages consisted of descendants of Okmulgee and Mikasuki of the Lower 
(Over) 

24 INDIAN VOICE 



SEMINOLE 
(Continued) 
Creek ·towns. The Okmulgees settled 
··at Talahasochte on the Suwannee River in present Dixie County. The site is located in Manatee Spring State Park. This was a Peace Town. It was reported in 1774, but its subsequent fate is unknown. Mikasuki is an out­growth of Chiaha and was established on Lake Mikasuky in 1767. Another town was established by a group of Mikasuky at Toalusa· Talofa, or Fowl Town, which was located on the south shore of the same lake. Both towns were located near Monticello, Florida. Following the Creek war of 1815 these two towns were abandoned and a new site was chosen near Greenville, Madi­son County. A group of Mikasukis went down into Alachua County but returned to the New Mikasuki town in Madison County in 1824. The Mika­sukis moved to Oklahumpka about 1830. 
The remaining Hitchiti speaking towns were Talsy, whose chief was Holata Mico, and Hitchiti, whose chief was Hitchiti Mico. The location of these towns is in doubt, but their chiefs signed the Treaty of Fort Moultrie in 1823 and were present at conferences in 1828. 
Allied with the Hitchiti speaking towns were a group of descendants of the Muskogee-speaking town of Tulsi on the Tallapoosa River in Ala­bama. This people were members of the Red Stick group of the Upper Creeks. In 1818 a group from this town were captured by Jackson between the St. Marks and Aucilla Rivers and later released. They went to the area of the 
Okeefenokee Swamp in Southern Geor­
gia, and finally settled near Micanopy's 
village at Withlocko or Big Swamp in 
Alachua County near Bainesville, Flor­
ida. This was the group led later by 
Osceola. 
A group of Yuchis were allies of the 
Alachua Plains Hitchiti speakers. Their · 
village was called Talahassee and they 
were settled first at Spring Garden in 
Volusia County in 1822. They later 
moved to a corner of Seminole County 
near Wikiwa Springs on a tributary 
of the St. Johns River. They were close­
ly allied with the Mikasukis of John 
Hicks, and Billy Hicks, his son, was 
chief of this gro~p. Other towns in 
South Central Florida at the beginning 
of the Seminole War were Minatti, 
located near Bartow: Oponay's Village, 
near Homeland, Polk County, and 
Cheluchota, near Ft. Meade also in 
Polk County. 
In the area between Tampa Bay 
and the Suwannee River, various 
Muskogee-speaking Creeks settled in 
towns between 1774 and the beginning 
of the Seminole War of 1835. The first 
emigrants were from Eufaula, on the 
upper Chattahoochee River, in 1733. 
They settled in 1767 at Big Hammock 
near Brooksville, Hernando County, 
Florida. 
Following the Creek War of 1814 
other Muskogee speakers settled in the area. Most of these were from the War towns of the Upper Creeks from the Tallapoosa River in Alabama. The · towns which ·made up this group of Muskogee refugees consisted of Black Dirt's Town on the Waccasassa River in Levy County, Charley Emathla's Village near the present town of 

Emathla's Village near the pres 
. ent to 

of Emathla, Manon Count . Hajo's Villa?e ~ear McIntosh,t . County; H1tch1pucksasy near ~on City in Hills borough County· !ant Ocheny, which was located at ' anct key's settlement on the Withlaco 
tar River in the area of Lake Itsala Apoc 
. c· C T op
m 1trus ounty. hese villagesrn favored removal, and fled as a gr to the area of Tampa in Decern~ 1835, to be under the protection of Army. 
The Apalachicola Indians cons· of Muskogee speakers who began settle in West Florida in 17 67 and joined by Upper Creek refugee 1814. The first settlement was made Talahassa or Old Tallehassee on Lafayette in Leon County. The village established was in 1778 at wannee Old Town on the Suwannc River near Brantford, Lafayette ty. This settlement was composed Creeks from the villages of Kolo Tushacnee, Ochkai, and Kunka Alabama speakers from Tawasa were present at this town. Bo moved from Lockaway to this site found his town in 1813. 
Other towns established in thi consisted of Blunt's village near Bloua­town on the Apalachicola River Calhoun County, Cockran's village this same river near its mouth, M King's Village close to Cockrans and Taphulga on Rocky Comfort C near Estafannulga, Liberty Co Fla. Most of these villages were re­moved west by the beginning of Seminole war. 






ffJSTORY OF ALAMEDA COUNTY 




1be following excerpt is from the "His­of Alameda County," by M. W. ood and J. P. Munro-Fraser, copyrighted by Wood ~n 1~83, ~nd blished in Oakland, Cahforma by him. ne work is 100I pages long, replete with portraits of the early white settlers of the 
county. 
It illustrates the racism of the early set-den toward Indians, but the way it is llcingused today shows the racism of the praent white dwellers of Alameda Coun­ty. This excerpt is being handed out in the city of Alameda by a committee which welcomes newcomers to the city. It purports to give them some of the -.uthentic" flavor of the history of the land they will be living on. 
The first white settlers of the county were ignorant, uneducated whites, the -.cum of the frontier," as Grant Foreman calls them. Their descendants show their ~ tage by continuing to show this racist PICCe of "history" around to new 
raidents. We would like to call for its abolishment. It is based on rumors, 
hearsay, and gossip. Many of the 
quotes" in it are not quotes, but came 
~ blown from the imagination of the 
Yiriters. 
Here is the excerpt. 
~ BORIGINES.-The beautiful C-Onr and mountain recesses of the 11.... ra Costa afforded a grand home for 
'UC ab · · 
..___ ongmal tribes. Here they
--..,med · 
llarou m large numbers, went ~ gh the drama of life, birth, con­ind:ttg, and death, with an almost stolid 

-u1erence H f .
or time t . · ow ar back m the course '*Ille thh!s race extends, or whence eir progenitors, no man 

knoweth. If, as some scientists assert, the very first evidences of the human race appear on the Pacific Coast (at Angel's Camp, Tuolumne County), why should we doubt that they are the descendants of this primitive race? Wars, disease, natural phenomena, and other causes have conspired to destroy the original race from the face of the earth, or it may have remained for the pale faced progeny of a kindred, yet far removed race, to perform the final act in the great drama oftheir existence as a people. Be that as it may, the great fact still remains, that when the Caucasians came to this coast they found it inhabited by a race of copper-colored people of peculiar physique and habits, differing widely from their brethren of the East, the Algonquins. The district now known as Contra Costa was. no exception to the general rule, but was infested by a horde of these rude barbarians. To describe this people, their habits and customs, will be the ob­ject of the following remarks. 
It is generally supposed that the Con­tra Costa was originally inhabited by four tribes of Indians, called Juchiyunes, Acalanes, Bolgones, and Carquinez, who were, all in all, a degraded race. Doctor Marsh described them as stoutly built and heavy limbed, as hairy as Esau, and with beards that would gain for a Turk honor in his own country.~They had short, broad faces, wide mouths, thick lips, broad noses, and extremely low foreheads, the hair of the head, in some cases, nearly meeting the eyebrows, while a few had that peculiar conformation of the eye so remarkable in the Chinese and Tartar races, and entirely different from the common American Indian, or the Polynesian. He states further: "The general expression of the wild Indian has nothing of the proud and lofty bearing, or the haughtiness and ferocity so often seen east of the mountains. It is more commonly indicative of timidity 
(See page 28) 




26 IND/AN VOICE 

NATIV. AMEBIC. 
ABT 



ACOMA POTTERY 
Lucy M. Lewis is one of the most respected of the potters 
in the Southwest. These pots are decorated with the de­
signs of the Mimbres people. 
(Photo: Mario Tarabini) 

(Photo: Mario Tarabini)(Photo: Mario Tarabini) 
Anne Lewis uses the Mimbres designs · frequently in her work. 


Anne Lewis Hansen 

pottery featured on these pages is ork of these two fine Indian ladies, 
M. Lewis, and her daughter, Anne, Acoma Pueblo. Mrs. Lewis is a march of Acoma, and a self-taught but she is internationally known 
fmely decorated pots. She is one of ely group of potters who work in · ional style. 
was widowed three years ago, but and Goy-shu-tai (Swift One) raised children. Of her seven daughters, ue potters, and they have developed interesting style of poly-chromed . They work both in traditional 
style, and in reproductions of · bres designs. Corrugated ware, an archaeological 
and geometrically painted pots, both made famous by Lucy. Her ection in these two forms has long recognized by the art critics, and she been. elevated to the position of . ntmg the Acoma potters in 
"1n~s of art work. Her work is part of . important public and private ib' ons, and has been widely
ittd. 
HerFdaughter Anne now lives in the 
ran · 
. cisco Bay Area, having come an 1944. But each summer she to Acoma, the most beautiful of flop: She was very instrumental in Pllb~ghan .Acoma grammar, which 
Potte 5 e~ ID June, 1965. 1ry' bemg close to the earth is an be ~art. of the life of the P~eblo, 
•~~~ng to end. It is still used nie arth, burial, rituals, and 
s. 
IND/AN VOICE 27 






28 IND/AN VOICE 

ALAMEDA 
(From page 25) 

and stupidity. The men and children are absolutely and entirely naked, and the dress of the women is the least possible or conceivable remove from nudity. Their food varies with the season. In February and March they live on grass and herbage; clover and wild peavine are among the best kind of their pas­turage. I have often seen hundreds of them grazing together in a meadow like . so many cattle. (If Doctor Boudinot only knew this fact, he would un­doubtedly start a new theory that they are the descendants of Nebuchadnezzar.) They are very poor hunters of the larger animals, but very skillful in making and managing nets for fish and food. They also collect in their season great quantities of the seed of various grasses, which are particularly abundant. Acorns are another principal article of food, which are larger, more abundant, and of better quality than I have seen elsewhere. The Californian is not more different from the tribes east of the mountains in his physical than in his moral and intellectual qualities. They are easily domesticated, not averse to labor, have a natural aptitude to learn mechanical trades, and, I believe, universally a fondness for music and a facility in acquiring it.* * * They are not nearly so much addicted to intoxication as is common to other Indians. I was for some years of the opinion that they were of an entirely different race from those east ofthe mountains, and they certainly have but little similarity. The only thing that caused me to think differently is that they have the same Moccasin game that is so common on the Mississippi, and what is more remarkable, they ac­company it by singing precisely the same tune. The diversity of language among them is very great. Itis seldom an Indian can understand another who lives fifty miles distant; within the limits of California are at least a hundred dialects, apparently entirely dissimilar. 
Few or no white persons have taken any pains to learn them, as there are in­dividuals in all the tribes which have any communication with the settlements who speak Spanish. The children when caught young are most easily domes­ticated, and manifest a great aptitude to learn whatever is taught them; when taken into Spanish families and treated with kindness, in a few months they learn the language and habits of their masters. When they come to maturity they show no disposition to return to the 
savage state. The mind of the wild In­dian, of whatever age, appears to be a tabula rasa, on which no impressions, . except those of mere animal nature, have been made, and ready to receive any impress whatever. I remember a remark of yours (Mr. Cass) some years ago, that Indians were only grown-up children. Here we have a real race ofin­f ants. In many recent instances when a family ofwhite people have taken a farm in the vicinity of an Indian village, in a short time they would have the whole tribe for willing serfs. They submit to flagellation more willingly than the negroes. Nothing more is necessary for their complete subjugation but kindness in the beginning, and a little well-timed severity when manifestly deserved. It is common for the white man to ask the In­dian, when the latter has committed any fault, how many lashes he thinks he deserves. The Indian with a simplicity and humility almost inconceivable, replies ten or twenty, according to his opinion of the magnitude of the offense. The white man then orders another In­dian to inflict the punishment, which is received without the least sign of resentment or discontent. This I have myself witnessed or I could hardly have believed it. Throughout all California the Indians are the principal laborers; without them the business of the coun­try could hardly be carried on.* 
The tribes inhabiting the Contra Costa did not differ materially from those in this section of the State, as they presented very similar characteristics, habits, and customs to those of the cen­tral portion of California. They were lazy and filthy, Doctor Marsh's assertion to the contrary notwithstan­ding, while as to home, they were among the fugutivi et vagabondi class. Nature had provided for them with a lavish hand, and all they had to do was to reach forth their hands, pluck and eat. No vain ambitions lured them on in the great race of life; no baubles of riches enticed them into hardships of labor, either mental or physical. They lived to die. Whence or why they came upon the scene of action, it was not theirs to in­quire; and, "whither are we drifting?" was a question over which they stopped not to puzzle their dull brains. And who shall say they were not as happy in their listless life as we ofthe higher type who wrestle with the inevitable almost from our infancy to dotage? From an ethical point of view and looking at the matter 
*Letter of Dr. John Marsh of Contra Costa County, to Hon. Lewis Cass, 1846. 
t!iroug~ the lenses of ed course 1t could be said that t wer~ worse than wasted; and vamshed before the overwhe of civilization, the world w much filth. But it is the old': man and the lion repeated: 8~. ture of a man, the man rernar lion that "there stood th creati?n." The lion asked w:o 
~.he p•~!~~e, ~~ w~ich the man I did. ,:\h. said the lion, "I 

all the d1fference in the w t ~aints the picture of the lor: tlon; I should have painted 
And so it is in this case. In . are not o_u~ idea~ of duty to 1:1-an; and 1t 1s no.t improbable hve? up t~ the light they had subJect qmte as near as do 

cessors. In regard to their costume already said that it was of' primitive nature, a slight covering around the loins · dress; but even this was not the greater number preferred abroad perfectly unclothed. winter the skin ofa deer or other or else a robe manufactured out feathers of water-fowl, or strips skin twisted together, formed quired protection against the· weather, yet such was their st laziness sometimes naught pri them from the chilly blast but covering of mud -an inex garment at best. The wardrobe women was little more exte fringed apron of tules falling ti waist before and behind, and open sides, being their summer while in the cold season a deers added. Tattooing is said to haw common within narrow limits the females, and by these marks women of different tribes tinguishable. Nearly as primitive as th · tume were their dwellings, w summer were a protection of b and in winter, a wickeup. Of these Bancroft's "Native Races" says: are sometimes erected on the ground, but more frequently o excavation three or four feet deep,. varying from ten to thirty ~ diameter. Round the brink ofthil willow poles are sunk upright · ground and the tops drawn to forming a conical structure, or t~ ends are bent over and driven . earth on the opposite side ofthep giving the hut a semi-globular Bushes, or strips of bark, are th up against the poles and the 
INDIAN VOICE 29 

. ,-··. ::.. · d"ng corn shows the condition Indian pe~~l~ ·~;~~e" redu~ ed to following the invasion from the East. In 
oman grm 1 they were held as virtual slaves on the ranches of the Spanish and the Anglos, who "developed" the lands In-
h d formerly used freely. Most Indians are still landless. 
with a thick layer of earth or . (n ome instances the interstices of frame are filled by twigs woven · over and under, between the nd the outside covering is oftule in tead of earth. A hole at the top gre to the smoke, and a small 
mg clo e to the ground admits the nt . 
ch hut generally shelters a whole of relations by blood and · ge, o that the dimensions of the tion depend on the size of the 
ri e u as a curious fact that the · 
who roamed around the Bay of ranci co had no canoes but used of tules lashed firmly together, ten feet long, and pointed at both a means of navigation. They tolerably dry in calm weather on a b~t when rough, the paddler, who nde of them, was up to his waist in till when needed, they would far out to sea on these. Indeed, it ~ed that the Indians of 

ornaa · 
previous to the occupation
J . 

e uit Fathers, had no other than_ those mentioned above 
ere ' 

muse even at as late a date as · of ;hMr. Bancroft: "The probable om· e_ absence of boats in Central 
la IS the · 
scarcity of suitable

bl
Y Iocat d · ' 

f e limber. Doubtless if of s: the Sa~ramento and the n Francisco Bay had been 
lined with large straight pine or fir trees, their waters would have been filled with canoes; yet after all, this is but a poor excuse; for not only on the hills and mountains, at a little distance from the water, are forests offine trees, but quan­tities of drift-wood come floating down every stream during the rainy season, out of which surely sufficient material could be secured for some sort of boats." 
Of their language, but little is left. Here and there a word has fastened itself upon some ranch or town, and will be handed down through a few generations. It was a deep gutteral, not unlike that spoken by the natives of southern China, but that there is any philological relation between the two tongues we will not venture to assert, still there is a sufficient resemblance to occupy the mind of the studiously inclined. 
Ashort half-century has sufficed to see this race become so entirely extinct that the sight of an Indian is almost a rarity. And what has done this? Dis­ease was the prime cause, for it is stat­ed that cholera took them off by thousands in 1833, while it is said they died so fast that the living were unable to care for the dead. Whole tribes be­came extinct, it being reported by a traveler on the Sacramento River that all of one tribe died with in a few days except a little girt. Then came war with its kindred calamities as another great decimator of their ranks. Contact with civilization had also much to do with it. Soon after the whites came among them, prostitution became general; the women no longer bore children, and thus the tribe gradually, but surely, died out, and no little ones grew to take the place of the deceased elders. Truly would it appear to have been a 
matter of destiny, for it was impos­sible that the two races could exist in 
contact. 
For disease their great "cure-all" was the sweat-bath, which was taken in the "sweat-house," an institution that was to be found in every rancheria. A fire being lighted in the center of the temes­cal (term applied to the native sweat­houses by the Franciscan Fathers), the patient is taken with and kept in a high state of perspiration for several hours; he then rushes out and plunges into the convenient stream on the bank ofwhich the structure is always raised -a remedy, whether more potent to kill or to cure, we leave to the decision of the reader. 
The following graphic description of 
the experiences of a gentleman in a 
iemescal, we give to the reader as a truth 
and racily told adventure: ­
"A sweat-house is of the shape of an · inverted bowl, and is generally about 
forty feet in diameter at the bottom, and 
is built of strong poles and branches of 
trees, covered with earth to prevent the 
(Over) 


30 INDIAN VOICE 



ALAMEDA 
(Continued) 
escape of heat. There is a small hole near the ground, large enough for Diggers to creep in, one at a time, and another at the top to give out the smoke. When a dance, a large fire is kindled in the center of the edifice, and the crowd assembles, the white spectators crawling in and seating themselves anywhere out of the way. The apertures, both above and below, are then closed, and the dancers take their positions. 
"Four and twenty squaws, en dishabille, on one side of the fire, and as many· hombres, in puris naturalibus, on the other. Simultaneously with the commencement of the dancing, which is a kind of shuffing hobble-de-hoy, the 'music' bursts forth. Yes, music fit to raise the dead. A whole legion of devils broke loose. Such screaming, shrieking, yelling, and roaring, was never before heard since the foundation ofthe world. A thousand cross-cut saws, filed by steam power -a multitude of tom-cats lashed together and flung over a clothes­line -innumerable pigs under a gate ­all combined would produce a heavenly melody compared with it. Yet this uproar, deafening as it is, might possibly be endured, but another sense soon comes to be saluted. Talk of the thousand stinks of the 'City of Cologne.' Here are at least forty thousand com­bined in one grand overwhelming sten­ch, and yet every particular odor dis­tinctly definable. Round about the roaring fire the Indians go capering, jumping and screaming, with the perspiration streaming from every pore. The spectators look on until the air grows thick and heavy, and a sense of oppressing suffocation overcomes them, when they make a simultaneous 
·rush at the door for self-protection. ­Judge their astonishment, terror, and dismay to find it fastened securely ­bolted and barred on the outside. They rush frantically around the walls in hope to discover some weak point through which they may find egress, but the house seems to have been constructed purposely to frustrate such attenpts. More furious than caged lions, they rush boldly against the sides but the stout poles resist every onset. Our army swore terribly in Flanders, but even my uncle Toby himself would stand aghast were he here now. 
"There is no alternative but to sit down, in hopes that the troop of naked fiends will soon cease from sheer exhaustion. Vain expectation! The 
uproar but increases in fury, the fire waxes hotter and hotter, and they seem to be preparing for fresh exhibitions of their powers. The combat deepens. On ye brave! See that wild Indian, a newly­elected captain, as with glaring eyes, blazing face, and complexion like that of a boiled lobster, he tosses his arms wildly aloft as in pursuit of, imaginary devils, while rivers of perspiration roll down his naked frame. Was ever the human body thrown into such con­tortions before? Another effort of that kind and his whole vertebral column must certainly come down with a crash! Another such convulsion, and his limbs will surely be torn asunder, and the dis­jo':nted members fly to the four points of the compass! Can the human frame en­dure this much longer? The heat is equal to that of a bakeoven; temperature five hundred degrees Fahrenheit! Pressure of steam one thousand pounds to the square inch! The reeking atmosphere has become almost palpable, and the victimized audience are absolutely gas­ping for life. Millions for a cubic inch of fresh air! Worlds for a drop of fresh water to cool the parched tongue! This is terrible. To meet one's fate among the white caps of the lake, in a swamped canoe, or to sink down on the bald mountain's brow, worn out by famine, fatigue, and exposure, were glorious; but to die here, suffocating in a solution 
of human perspiration, carbonic acid gas and charcoal smoke is horrible! The idea is absolutely appalling. But there is no avail. Assistance might as well be sought from a legion of unchained imps as from a troop ofIndians maddened by excitement. 
"Death shows his visage not more than five minutes distant. The fire glimmers away leagues off. The uproar dies in the subdued rumble of a remote cataract, and respiration becomes slower and more labored. The whole system is sinking into utter insensibility, . and all hope of relief has departed, when suddenly, with a grand triumphal crash, similar to that with which the ghosts closed their orgies when they doused the lights and started in pursuit of Tam O'Shanter and his old gray mare, the uproar ceases, and the Indians vanish through an aperture opened for that purpose. The half-dead victims to their own curiosity dash through it like an arrow, and in a moment more are drawing in whole bucketfuls of the cold, frosty air, every inhalation ofwhich cuts the lungs like a knife, and thrills the system like an electric shock. They are in time to see the Indians plunge headlong into the ice-cold water of a neighboring 
.. stream, and crawl out and sinJc the banks, utterly exhausted. last act of the drama, the gra and the fandango is over." 
With the Indians of the Ba Francisco, the practice of b dead, with ~verything belo them, was umversal, while th south buried theirs. Wierd is of incremation. Gathered in around the funeral pyre are a~d relat_ives of the deceased,b dismal discord; as the flames e increases their enthusiasm ecstasy of excitement, theyI lacerate their bodies, and go 8 
tear a handful ofthe burning offthe smouldering body, and As a badge of mourning they 
their faces with a compound oj'. of the dead, and grease, w allowed to remain for Time 
As is natural to suppose, which we now leave with the endless, therefore we are follow it out as it should be; s · of the nature which we now hardly the place to look for a short notice of California's a Where can such be better found the pages of the profound and work of Mr. Bancroft on the Races of the Pacific States America"! 
.}tK 
SANTA CLARA-After an delay from the printer, the American Publishing CompanYi Indian-run publishing firm, the publication of "The Sec Face," by Ken Ryan (Oledoska late Chief Everett Parker. 
The work, an important co tales from the Cornplanter transcribed exactly as they adds an important gap to tho Native American literature tradition. Everett Parker, whof last December, was the last 
Tree Chiefs and as such 
whole of this tale with him. 
it is in print, it will not be 1 
kind. 



IND/AN VOICE 31 

INDIAN BOOKS from 





Naturegraph 

8339 West Ory Creek Road, Healdsburg, Calif. 95448 Phone: (707) 433-3232 



...............~ ....................... ...,• ......... ........................................~ ..........................• .................... 

Clip and mail 
price plus 30¢ mailing and handling / 
ifl eS 

········· ............................... .----------------------------------------­
Pie~ mail to: 
loAmerican Publishing Co. 

<lira, California 95050 
•••••••••••••••••.•••••. am enclosing a check D 
money order o 
Quantity/Price Paperbacks 
•2.25 3.00 
• 2.25 
• 1.95 
• 3.95 
• 3.95 
• 2.50 
• 
2.00 • 1.50 
· • 
1.75 • 
3.25 • 
2.25 • 

2.25 * Indian Legends Live in Puppetry, Vera Leeper. Good instructions, illustrated. . 4.25 
1.25 • Indian Sandpainting of the Greater Southwest, David Villasenor 
1.50 • Strange Journey, L. Lone Dog. Vision life of a psychic Indian lady GOOD MEDICINE SERIES, by Adolph Hungry Wolf 
1.50 • Life in ~armony with Nature 
1.50 • Companion Volume 
.:-~==­
1.50 
• In Glacier National Park ~ -===­

2.50 
• Traditional Dress Issue ~ -­1.50 


• TipiLife ~~~~---­
1.50 • Thou~ts ­2.50 
3.50 • Legends ------=: =
Indian Boyhood, Charles Eastman. Recollections of a Santee Sioux. 
3.50 • Old Indian Days, Eastman. Indian life before the white man. t'; 
3.50 • The Soul of the Indian, Eastman. Religious life before the white man. ~ 
1.95 • Gospel of the Rodman, Erne« 'fhompson Seton. Depth ,nd be,uty of ,el;gmn. ~,! 
WILDERNESS LIVING BOOKS ~ '(jf)1f!_~ln 
3.00 • At Home in the Wi:derness, Sun Bear. Many arts of wilderness living ~__;; _ 1.50 • Common Edible and Useful Plants of the West, Su,eet . . . . . 3.50 _2.50 • Natural Remedies for Better Heaith, Dr. Ingrid Sherman 4.50 _3.95 • Wild Edible Plants of thi, Western United States, Kirk. Large and complete. 5.95 _2.25 • Backpacking Made Easy, Abel. Basic and complete guide to a popular sport. 4.25 
_3.95 

· The Se ere t of NO FACE 
Price/Quantity
INDIAN BOOKS 

Cloth Edition A Bag of Bones, Masson. Legends of the Wintu Indians of Northern California 4.25 Buffalo Hearts, Sun Bear. Stories of great Indian heroes . . . . . . . 5.00 Great Upon the Mountain, Crazy Horse of America, Vinson Brown . . . . . 4.25 Indian Talk, Iron Eyes Cody. Hand signals of the North American Indians . . 3.95 Lord of the Dawn, Tony Sf1carer. Story of Quetzalcoatl and Mexican religion 
5.95__ Native Americans of California and Nevada, Dr. Jack Forbes. Photos . . . 5.95 The Pomo Indians of California & Their Neighbors, Brown. With Color Map 4.50 Pomo Basketmaking, Allen. Illustrated instructions included. . . . . . 4.00 Songs of the Yokuts and Paiutes, Pietroforte. Songs with musical scores . 3.50 Tales of the Sea Foam, Lisette Brown. A true Indian story for children. . 3.75 
Tapestries in Sand, Dovid Villasenor. The spirit of Indian Sandpainting. . 5.25 Warriors of the Rainbow, Willoya & Brown. Visions of Indians. 4 color plates. 4.25 



UPCOMING EVENTS 
r.... 
The San Francisco Indian Center will again this year feature their star-studded Second Annual Indian Fair, to be held September 22, 23, and 24 in the auditorium of the Palace of Fine Arts building in the city. There will be a total of four shows, one on each of the first two days, and two on the last day, and there will be booths available for Indian arts and crafts. 
For more information, contact the Center staff at 225 Valencia Street, San Francisco, Phone (415) 552-1071. 
* * * 

We give guarded support for the 51st annual Inter-tribal Indian Ceremonial at Gallup, New Mexico, to be held August 10-13. Because of the fact that there are almost no Indians on the 335­member board of the corporation, and no Indians on the Executive Committee, the event is not run the way many In­dians want it. Many religious dances are held in the arena, which defiles them, and this disturbs many Indians. 
Indian people get very little of the profits from the Ceremonial; dancers get $5 a day. But a large family can make money they need by going to it. 
Many of the booths are filled by white : traders, who commonly mark-up In­dian-made goods by 200%. There are some, but not enough, Indians with booths. 
For those who want to go, we urge you to support the Indian craftsmen who will be displaying, and to voice your opposition to any religious dances performed for pay. 
August 2-5 
f':L!~ .'\nnual Choctaw Indian Fair will be ht..1 at ialihina, Oklahoma. 
Sept. 29-0ct. 1 
Oklahoma City State Fair Dance will be held in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. The Women's Dance Contest will be held on the 29th, starting at IO a. m., the Junior and Straight Dance Contest will start on the 30th at 10 a. m., and the Men's Dance will start on the 1st at 10. 
September 30 
The Osage Centennial will be held in Pawhuska, Oklahoma, and is a one-day event. 
July 25-30 
The annual American Indian Days, a six-day event, will be held again in Sheridan Wyoming. 
August 3-6 
Shoshone-Bannock Indian Festival, Fort Hall, Idaho 
August (second week) 
Huckleberry Feast, Warm Springs, Oregon Omak Stampede, Omak, Washington, Colville Reservation Arapaho Pow-wow, Arapaho, Wyoming 
August 26-27 
Chief Seattle Days, Suquamish, 
Washington 
Makah Days, Neah Bay, Washington, .Makah Reservation August (middle) 
Crow Fair, Crow Agency M one of the most important ~ d dian gatherings of the year. n 
Labor Day Weekend 
Spokane Indian Pow-wow 
111 
h. ' ff l
Was mgton 

Rodeo and Indian Dancing Springs, Oregon ' Labor Day Celebration 
Wyoming ' 
Labor Day Celebration, Wyoming One-Shot Antelope Hunt 
wow, Lander, Wyoming 
September 15-18 

Pendleton Round-up, Oregon 
A 
WANT YOUR EVENT FEATURED IN INDIAN VOICE? 

We will run notices of any Indian events that are happe tionwide -powwows, art e public shows, museum exhib' dian sales and market days, rod dian fairs, Indian days, and so will feature anything that is D grading to Indians, and that d exploit Indians. Full-time co v~ntures -Mount Rushmore:, . must go through our adve partment. 
To have your event featured, to us at least six weeks ~fi event is to occur; if it is rece1 than that, we cannot guarantee will get into the magazine. Send 
IND/AN VOICE p.o.Bo• ·S~nta Clara,_ California S 
INDIAN VOICE 33 

JNDIAN SCHOOL JOURNAL _._____ Indian School of Indian Affairs , Okla. 74635 
WELCOME CENTER · 8th. St. Jes, Calif. 90057 
Club 

~of.New Mexico cncan Studies Lomas N. E. uc, N. M. 87106 
lo LA CHIEFTAIN 
147 · M. 87528 

KINZUA PLANNING NEWSLETTER Seneca Nations of Indians P. 0. Box 231 Salamanca, N. Y. 14779 . 
MAINE INDIAN NEWSLETTER Cf O Mrs. Eugenia Thompson, Editor Pme Street Freeport, · Maine 04032 
MAINE NEWSLETTER 42 Liberty St. Gardiner, Maine 04345 
MANY SMOKES P. 0. Box 5895 Reno, Nev. 89503 
MENOMINEE NEWS Neopit, Wis. 54150 
MENOMINEE PRINTS C/ 0 Evelyn T. Kaquatosh, Editor Keshena, Wis. 54135 
MOCCASIN TELEGRAPH CAP Grand Portage, Minn. 55605 
THE MORNING STAR NEWS Lame Deer, Mont. 59043 
THE NATIVE NEVADAN Editor 98 Colony Road Reno, Nev. 89502 
NATIVE NEWS & BIA BULLETIN P. 0. Box 3-8000 Juneau, Alaska 99801 
THE NATIVE PEOPLE Room B-1, 100 Ave. & 104th St. Edmonton, Alb., Canada 
THE NATIVE VOICE 429 E. 6th. St. No. Vancouver, British Columbia Canada ' 
NAVAJO ASSI~TANCE, INC. P. 0. Box 96 GaHup, N. M. 87301 
NAVAJO EDUCATION NEWSLETTER Div. of Education Navajo Area-BIA Window Rock, Ariz. 86515 
NAVAJO TIMES P. 0. Box 310 Window Rock, Ariz. 86515 
NCAI SENTINEL Dupont Circle Bldg., Rm. 1019 1346 Connecticut Ave., N. W. Washington, D. C. 20036 
NEBRASKA TRAILS Indian Cent~r Publications 903 "O" St. Lincoln, Nebr. 68508 
NEW BREED NEWS North American Indian League P. 0. Box 7307 Boise, Idaho 83707 
NEWS BULLETIN Fort Berthold Agency New Town, N. D. 58763 
NEWSLETTER American Indian Culture Center UCLA Campbell Hall, Rm. 3221 Los Angeles, Calif. 90024 
THE NORTHIAN Soc. for Indian & Northern Educ. Univ. of Saskatchewan P.O. Saskatoon, Sask., Canada 
NORTHWEST INDIAN TIMES P. 0. Box 2772 Spokane, Wash. 99220 
OGLALA WAR CRY P. 0. Box 733 Pine Ridge, S. D. 57770 
010 NEWSLETTER 555 Constitution Norman, Okla. 73069 
OUR HERITAGE C/ 0 Lucy Covington Nespelem, Wash. 99155 
THE PADRE'S TRAIL C/ 0 Rev. Donnan Her be St. Michaels, Ariz. 86511 
PAHA SAPA WAHOSI Indian Club Black Hills State College Spearfish, S. D. 57783 
(Over) 


INDIAN PUBS 
(Continued) 
THE PIERRE CHIEFTAN 
Pierre Boarding School 
Star Route no. 3 
Pierre, S. D. 57501 
POINT HOPE NEWS 
Point Hope, Alaska 99766 
POWWOW TRAILS 
P. 0. Box 258 
So. Plainfield, N. J. 07080 
QUECHAN NEWS Fort Yuma Indian Reservation P. 0. Box 1169 Yuma, Ariz. 85364 
RAINBOW PEOPLE P. 0. Box 469 Gresham, Ore. 97030 
THE RAWRIDE PRESS C/ 0 Mr. Dave Wynecoop Wellpinit, Wash. 99040 
RED CLOUD COUNTRY 
Red Cloud Indian School Pine Ridge, S. D. 57770 
THE RENEGADE 
Franks Landing Nisqually, Wash. 98501 
ROSEBUD SIOUX HERALD P. 0. Box 65 Rosebud, S. D. 57570 
ROUGH ROCK NEWS 
Rough Rock Rural Branch 
Chinle, Ariz. 86503 
SAND PAINTER 
P. 0. Box 752 
Chinle, Ariz. 86503 
SHANNON COUNTY NEWS Pine Ridge Indiun Reservation Pine Ridge, S. D. 57770 
SHO-BAN NEWS 
Fort Hall, Idaho 83203 
SIOUX SAN SUN 
PHS Indian Hospital 
Rapid City, S. D. 57701 
SI WONG GEH Catteraugus Reservation News P. 0. Box 97 Versailles, N. Y. 14168 SMOKE SIGNAL 
Federated Indians of Calif. 
2727 Santa Clara Way 
Sacramento, Calif. 95817 
SMOKE SIGNALS Colorado River Reservation Parker, Ariz. 85344 
SMOKE SIGNALS 5672 Fountain Avenue Los Angeles, Calif. 90028 
SMOKE SIGNALS 
All American Indian Days 
P. 0. Box 451 
Sheridan, Wyo. 82801 
SMOKE SIGNALS-FIRE FLAMES 
P. 0. Box 119, Inwood Station New York, N. Y. 10034 
SOUTHERN PUEBLOS 
AGENCY BULLETIN 
1000 Indian School Rd., N. W. 
Albuquerque, N. M. 87103 
THE SOUTHERN UTE DRUM Ignacio, Colo. 81137 
TALKING LEAF · Indian Center Inc. 3446 W. First St. 
Los Angeles, Calif. 90004 
TALKING LEAVES 
722 N. Beacon 
Dallas, Tex. 75214 
THE THREE TRIBES HERALD New Town, N. D. 58763 
THUNDERBIRD 
Albuquerque Indian School 
1000 Indian School Rd. N. W. 
Albuquerque, N. M. 87103 


TOMAHAWK 
Oregon State Univ. 
C/ 0 State Extension Agent 
P. 0. Box 428 
Warm Springs, Ore. 97761 
TONAWANDA INDIAN NEWS 
C/ 0 F. K. Abrams 
Bloomingdale Rd. 
Akron, N.Y. 14001 
THE TRIBAL SPOKESMAN 
2015 "J" St. 
Sacramento, Calif. 95814 

TRIBAL TRIBUNE Colville Tribe Nespelem, Wash. 99155 
TUNDRA TIMES P. 0. Box 1287 Fairbanks, Alaska 9970l 
UNITED SCHOLARSHIP SERVICE NEWS p. 0. Box 18285 Capitol Hill Station 
. Denver, Colo. 80218 
THE VOICE OF BROTHER 423 Seward St. Juneau, Alaska 99801 
WAHPETON HIGHLIGHTS Wahpetpn School · Wahpeton, N. D. 58075 

THE WARPATH 
Unit~d Native American, Inc. P. 0. Box 26149 ". San Prancisco, ·Calif. 94126 
WEEKLY BULLETIN Wahpeton School Wahpeton, N. D. 58075 

WISCONSIN INDIAN 
YOUTH COUNCIL 718 W. Clairemont Ave. P. 0. Box 226 Eau Claire, Wis. 54701 
WOPEEDAH Immac. Conception Mission Stephan, S. D. 57346 . 

WOYAKAPI 
St. Francis Mission St. Francis, S. D. 57572 
YAKIMA NATION REVIEW Toppenish, Wash. 98948 
YAKIMA RESERVATION FARM NEWS C/ 0 County Extension Agent P. 0. Box 632 Toppenish, Wash. 98948 
ZUNI TRIBAL NEWSLE Zuni, N. M. 87327 
San Juan Mission P. 0. Box 720 Farmington, N. M. 87401 

}tit(. 


INDIAN VOICE 35 

INDIA.N WORLD NEWS 
....; .........-................ ..................................................... • .• ......... .................................... . 
-" 
...............-............. ............................................................, ......... .......-. .......................... .. .
_ 

Indian bas tradition~lly b~en the m the missionaries tried to from his "paganistic" ways, but · 
Crazy Eagle Labuff has the process. He is a Oglala Indian from the Rosebud 
...n11ao·n who is preaching religion to -and what he preaches is religion. . 
F.agle joined the American In­ovement some time ago, and joined has been active with that tion in fighting for Indian the upper Midwest. But at the time, he tells others about Indian and tries to convert them, In­-..... whiteman, to the Indian way. 33-year-old minister was raised Latberan minister through high 
but afterward was told by the · 
of two departed Lakotas that he hreak away from this part of his and minister the Indian religion IIH••ihi·tes. This decision was difficult ~ make, because it is contrary hes of some of the most im­religious leaders. Only the medicine of the spirits could 
1 1111111

•~ him to break the old rules. his ~sion, he has been trying to 1 ..• 11~. Whites to break away from the n that is sure to come if they ---~o hold to their aggressive, _wars. He tells them they to live m tune with Nature to 
the land, an~ build their spiritual of trymg to build posses­
~man should not try to con­it ng he sees, he tells them,l!!lllf'lllll-:S not meant for one kind to to retng_s. He tells them to pray, gain their respect for each 
So far he has been successful. He is starting to establish communes of whites around the midwest, with Indian religion as their way oflife. The first one is at Parmallee, South Dakota. 
"The whiteman is always trying to teach me," he says. "I'm going to teach him. I'm going to be his teacher." 
* * * 

D-Q UNIVERSITY: The fast­
growing Indian and Chicano University 
located near Davis, California, is 
swinging into action with speed. In ad­
dition to the programs they have already 
set up in Native and Chicano education, 
and the health sciences, they will have 20 
scholarships available for the 1972-1973 
school year for graduate students. 
The scholarships will pay $3,000 for 
the academic year, October until June, 
and will be aimed at training Indian and 
Chicano graduate students already 
possessing the Bachelor's degree for 
further work in the field of Indian and 
Chicano studies. Fields of study are 
Native and Chicano instruction, 
educational planning, and curriculum 
development. 
Interested candidates should contact 
Daniel del Solar, Coordinator of 
Instruction, D-Q University, P. 0. Box 
409, Davis, California, 95616. 
D.-Q is also looking for an instructor for Native American studies for the coming year. They would like to have someone with prior teaching experience, who can develop curriculum, teach, fairly assess student performance, and who is knowledgeable · of the current issues and problems in Native American communities. He should also have a thorough knowledge 
ofNativeAmerican history and culture. 
Interested persons should contact the 
same person list_ed above. Salary ranges 
$9,500 to $10,500. 
* * * 

The Sacramento Indian Halfway house, with the help of students and faculty from the University of California at Davis, D-Q University, and Sacramento State College, recently received a grant of $77,822 from the Council on Criminal Justice for a program to aid the Indian ex-felon in his re-entry into free society. 
They are looking for a Director ofthe Outreach Center which is yet to be set up, and they want a person who has done work with Indian prisoners in the past. He must be able to involve the prisoner in transition in the work of the community, and help him with , problems of housing, job placement, drug abuse and alcoholism. 
If qualified and interested, contact 
anyone at the Sacramento Indian 
Center, 1730-24th St., Phone 446-0263. 
* * * 

President Nixon signed an Executive Order on May 20, 1972 returning some 21 000 acres of land belonging to the Y~kima Indian Nation. The land had been put into a wilderness area when a surveyor was "lost." For 40 years the tribe has been fighting for its return, and this time, they won. 


• • • • • • • • • • • • e • • • • • • • • • • • • •••••••a••••••••••• • • • • e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • e • • • 0 •••••••IO••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •.• •••••.•.••. re. I 

ALASKA 
(From page 15) 
the North Slope can accrue to the 
villages or to the regional corporations. 
(No royalties or sub-surface rights of 
any kind accrue to individual villages; 
only the · regional corporations can 
collect the 2% royalties, up to a total of 
$500 million, with the money to be dis­
tributed among the corporations ac­
cording to approximate size of 
population.) Thus, almost as an act or 
recrimination for their insistence on 
being employed in the oil drilling, the 
Natives of the North Slope are 
forbidden by law from sharing in the 
benefits ofthe oil, except for working on 
the drilling rigs. 
Round three was won by the oil com­
panies and the state. 
Round Four 

Acting of their own accord, a handful 
of Eskimos filed an injunction against the Alaska Pipeline early in the fight against the oil companies' development. To everyone's surprise, the courts · granted the injunction, and further stated that the Interior Department had to study the 1,asibility ofthe project and evaluate the environmental conse­quences before granting a license to proceed with the construction. The pipeline, which will cost from $1 to $1.7 billion dollars, was halted in its tracks 
while Interior made its evaluation. 
In the meantime the conservationists, 
who had thought their case against the 
pipeline largely lost, rallied with 
strength. They took out ads against it in 
the major papers around the nation, and 
indeed one new organization, Friends of 
the Earth, headed by former Sierra Club 
Executive Director David Brower, used 
the Alaska controversy as one of its 
prime tools in appeals for new members. 
It was tremendously successful. 
The oil companies countered by shif­
ting their lobbying apparatus in 
Washington and Juneau into high gear, 
and by paying for an "environmental study" of their own, which they brought out with much fanfare; it supposedly showed that there was little danger to the environment. In addition, much pressure was brought to bear on the Secretary of the Interior, who must decide whether or not to let the pipeline be built. Up to this time, both Hickel and his successor, Rogers Morton, have failed to grant the license outright. 
The conservationists mounted a fullscale campaign to try to convince the public that the pipeline was not good for ­the environment, while the oil com­panies proceeded to point out the need for oil and the possible shortage of it if new, politically stable sources were not found and developed. Oil, they said, drove the nation, and we need 14 million barrels of it a day for cars and so on. The oil fields of Alaska, they said, must be developed, to meet the power crisis shortly coming to the U.S. Some of the wind was taken out of their argument when it was revealed that the oil com­panies were bargaining with Japan to sell her some of the Alaska oil. 
Despite the controversy · and the countercharges-the conservationists say some of the oil will spill, and that, with only 12 cutoff valves along the 800­mile route, the Arctic spill will make those off the coast ofSanta Barbara and the San Francisco Bay look like drops on the surface-most of those concerned take it for granted that the pipeline will be built, and that the oil will flow from the North Slope to Valdez, to be carried by tanker from there to refineries on the West Coast. The oil companies now take the position that some oil spillage will probably occur, and an Interior report says that there is a very good "probability" of this. But, they say, this spillage is inevitable and must be accepted. The conservationists counter by saying that there are other ways of getting the oil from the North · Slope to the lower 48; they have yet to come up with any better way, however, and the plans for the pipeline continue. The environmentalists point out that the very area where the oil will be stored 

in Valdez was completely d . the 1967 quake, but this fails to the plans of th_~ oilmen. They that the 800 I?lles of the pipeJine over mountams, across five . merous str~ams, a~d through of the canbou migration ro be subject to breakage withe· quake, and that a minimum million barrels would p~ur event of a break: the oilmen moved. Worry about a few not their problem; their pro get o~l to the !hirsty, greedy, American public, and since tremendous profit in doing intend to do it. 
As Lewis Lapham pointed May 1970 Harper's, practi politician in the state le · Alaska is in favor of the oil ex going through, and further almost to a man in favor of not in" to the Natives' pleas treatment in the area of They are guided gy the b · philosophy of making a b clearing out fast, and to hell consequences. In September, 1 raffled off oil concessions on Slope for over $900 million, prospects of things they could the money only seemed to w. appetite for more money, more more development, and the f of Nature. 
The longtime Anglo in Alas typically undereducated or un does not understand the slick who come in from the lo manage the state's money and oil. But they understand that the North Slope will be the financial windfall to come alo history of the state, and determined not to let some pamby conservationists vironmentalists in the states them. They didn't want to have of the land claims settlement, they didn't want to obligate for the future upkeep ot the 


INDIAN VOICE 37 


ted the matter to be left in the of Congress. don't understand, they say, all about fragile environment an? for protecting it. To them 1t a hostile environment, and still have trouble coping with. none of the regrets of the environmental worriers of 48; there is no love for the on them. It is a thing to be and if not conquered, at least 
environmental argument holds with them. There is so much the state that a little of it can be and there is still lots left to move feel they need the oil, and if it, why should some namby­people stop them from getting it. lince they control the political of the state, they are ap­going to do everything in their 
to see that the oil is tapped. four was won by the state · machinery of Alaska and lost citizenry of the nation.' 
are few treaties with Alaskan a..:.:.l
..---. and t_hey did little fighting with people who started Into the state a couple of hun­ago. The few reservations established were done with the a pen by the called Executive 
. 
a.-.aAct was passed last year the 11111U open claims on the U .s: for bas The Indian Claims Com­at state~ that the whole state Ale one hme belonged to the In­uts, and Eskimos and also per compensation had never to them for the land taken. 

But the Alaskan Native Land Claims Settlement has more involved in it than the simple payment for lands taken. The ultimate aim of the Act, as is the policy of all Indian and Native legislation, is the total assimilation of the Indian and Native into the mainstream ofAmerican society .. The Alaskan Act does this with a vengeance. 
Where the Native had been ruled, for the most part, by his traditional form of government, the village council, modified to some extent by the forms of government forced on them by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, after the pas­sage of the Act he will be to a large extent governed by a typically Anglo-: style corporation. These twelve regional corporations are charged with not only economic development for the natives through the villages, but with selecting about half the land from the public domain that will be reserved for the natives, and with establishing and ad­minstering the social welfare, health, and educational programs for the native population. The takeover of governmental functions by the regional corporations is eminent and real; the Native villages, to receive any benefits from the Act whatsoever, must organize along the lines provided in the Act, and their articles of incorporation and bylaws must be approved by the board of directors of the regional corporation. Thus the takeover of traditional native functions by the Anglo superstructure _is almost 100% complete. 
Now, instead ofthe village chief being allowed to exercise his traditional authority, he will have to become part of the corporate power structure, and learn the new way of doing things-shares of stock, proxy votes, bond laws, voting procedures, corporate structure, con­tract procedures, stock options. 
Needless to say, there are few native leaders in the State who are ready for this form of management now; only one percent (1%) of the Natives are finishing high school now, and the picture doesn't appear to be much brighter for the future. 
Educational services now are provided by the Bureau of Indian Af­fairs, and since there are only three high schools in the state for Natives, most of the teenagers are sent to the lower 48 to go to high school. The dropout rate among them is very high; most go back home after the first year and never return to the school in the states. The effect of the Act is to leave the educational obligations of the federal government uncertain, and only time will tell if they will be continued by BIA. It is easy to assume that, since there is now no longer any federal trust land for the natives, which is used as the basis for the Bureau's obligations in the rest of the nation, that the Bureau will soon see fit to end its educational services, and turn them over to the state of Alaska. And Alaska has not shown any desire to become obligated for Native education. The Natives also lose this round. 

Forced Relocation 

But the Act is consistent with the 20­year-old policy of the BIA, which calls for getting Indian and Native people off their land and into the big cities, and opening the Indian land up for development. 
Since the Natives need at least 60 million acres of land for subsistence living, and now will have only 40 million acres maximum, it is obvious that as the population increases, more and more of 
(Over) 




ALASKA 
(Continued) 
them wiHhave to leave the land for the cities of Alaska and the U.S. As is the case with so many Natives in the lower 48, it will be a choice between unem­ployment on the reservation ( or Native village) and low-paying work in the cities. Either way, the cost in human motivation and potential will be high, and the effects are already becoming ap­parent. 
The natives now live mostly by sub­sistence because that is the only way of life open to them that has any dignity at­tached to it. The government has been preaching assimilation and relocation to the big cities for some time, but the relocation has for the greatest part been of people who had not been trained in the skills, technical and social, for living in the big cities. Many of the ones who live in urban areas now are highly dis­satisfied with their lifestyle, and would change it it they could. 
The chance of changing it does not exist for most. There are a few who have made the adjustment to urban living, and not surprisingly, many of them are now on their way back to Alaska, and into instant positions with the myriad of action agencies, urban Indian centers, regional corporations, health facilities, village corporations, and investment companies that are starting to appear. But for most, especially those now living on the mainland U.S., this chance will not come. They will have the choice of enrolling into a thirteenth region, or of being enrolled back in their home villages. If they vote to establish the thirteenth region, then they will not receive any land benefits from the act, and will only benefit from their proportional share of the money set­tlement. Over a 20-year period, at the end of which the money payment ends, they would receive less than $3,000 each. 

After that time, they will have given up all their rights as Natives. Their birthright will be gone. 
For those living in the villages, it is obvious that some of them will have to leave-there is not enough food to sus­
tain the population. And it is also ob­
vious that those who leave will have to relocate to the cities or to someplace where there is work. Wherever they relocate, they will have to give up their way of life, and they will not be doing so at their own option. This is the real ine­quity in the Act-the fact that the Native is not given the opportunity to determine his own life style-it is determined for him by the Congress, the oil lobbies, the state legislature of Alas­ka, and the conservationists. 
Round Five 
As stated in Section 4(b) of the Act, "aboriginal titles . . . are hereby extinguished." Section 4(c) also states that all claims against the U.S. are also extinguished. 
One gets the feeling from studying the Act and the other documents that the rest of the Act itself is an attempt to cover up these two facts. In effect, as far as the federal government is concerned, there are no more Natives in Alaska; it is an inconvenience, but the bureaucrats will spend the next 20 years phasing 
them out of existence. 
This facet of the Act bears some · resemblance to the optimistic estimates of the Secretary ofInterior in the l 860's, that it would take ten years, or at the most 25 years, to make Christians and farmers out of the Indians of the U.S. But the difference with the Act is that there are no ulterior motives, such as the desire to "better" the Natives, which caused the Congressmen and others to settle on this course ofaction. There was one motive, pure and simple-to the oil and other resources of exploit !hem successfully, an-d--to--­the Natives ·out of the way while this. 

The best way they could come was to make the Native a stoc a regional corporation, with the of stock belonging to inalienable-for the first 20yean. that time, of course, the stock sold, traded, and used to pay which the state of Alaska is ce levy as soon as the legisla permitted to. At the same · making the corporations conform code for such organii.atio determined by the state of Alasb, Congress and the President, with stroke of the pen, brought termination ancr eventual alie Native resources. 
The act oftermination up to this has been a one-way process; person or tribe is terminated federal services, the process · reversed, no matter how poor or ched the people become. The peo the Menominee Tribe, in w· have had almost all their · resources, the only resource they alienated from them. About 8 them are now on welfare. Their are closed. The county hos · closed. And still the federal gove will not recognize its obligationt~ and will not grant them federal aid, in an emergency. . 
The same promises to happen di ka. Even though the re corporations will supposedly b_e natives it is certain that there will of con{act between the Native and the other politicians in the get many of the things done corporations are designed for, 

IND/AN VOICE 39 








II Ni 
through state offices. And n.o veto go 11 they try to stand their ...tter ho~ ;ewill be sucked into the ,_nce,lit. e 1 machinery. Eventually, 
Po uca · . d 
-t rt to lose their fe era1sup­.,bell tbeybs aking the state politicians
-rt and ac ' I . . 
,...._-t dominate them. t 1s a ~ract :ow that Native politicians ~ legislature will not be many; theare only two now, and one of dldC . an Apple (Uncle Tom).
.a...n IS , , 
.....-h y come under the dommatlon ~t s~te politicians, they will l?se tl. autonomy. Instead of representmg Natives, they will ~ore and more CIOIDC to represent the 1~terests of the 
• 
politicians,. and the mterests of the 

• 
politicians 1s for t~e most part the illeR5ts of big money m the .state. And 


, money is, of cour~e, d1rec~ly op.. poeed to the Natives ha~1~g any nghts to ud orresources or political power. Thi: four-fifths of the state's population is certain to dominate the life of the other fifth, 
The Natives are effectively barred hmdisputing the terms ofthe Act. Sec­lion 8(a) forbids anyone except a "duly athorized official" of the State of Alaska from bringing "civjl action to contestin any manner the validity ofthis Aa:,· any such action must be filed within one year of the date_of the Act. nus the act is an attempt to settle once . 111d for all time the Alaskan Land Claims,the future of the Natives, and to 
the role of the foderal government in daeir affairs after a few years. The Natives lost Round Five. 
Supporting Actors 


V~ous people played a role in the Land Claims Settlement. Some on the side of the Natives some were the side of the Oil comp~nies some on the side of the state of Alaska some were on the side of th~ rvationists. Unfortunately, most of 
~ngress was not on the Natives' side, ., protestations to the contrary."alter u·1ckel made many speeches 
~ pearances before Congress , g how he was on the side of the IOcia} ~ and for their economic and act ttennent. But in the nitty-gritty, uaI proposals he pushed he

Otb ' ' 

set erwise. He first proposed a
I

t ernent of 10 million acres, or 
about three percent (3%) of the land the 
Natives were entitled to, and a payment 
of $500,000. Hickel was relieved of most 
of his role in the matter When he left the 
post of Secretary of the Interior. But he 
has continued to show his real interests, 
however, by lobbying for the construc­
tion of the oil pipeline since he left office. The conservationists found a friend in Rep. John Dingell of Michigan, who tried to limit native land selection in the present and proposed wildlife areas. Mr. Dingell showed, in his debate on the floor ofthe House, that there was more in favor of the Kodiak bear, various birds, and fur seals, than he was -in favor of the Alaskan Natives. Fortunately for the Natives, the Dingell amendment was defeated, and Native villages will presumably now not have to be relocated en masse; there was a ·great possibility that they would under 
his amendment, because some 46 villages 
are located within or close to the borders 
of "restricted areas" (National Parks, 
National Fores~s, Wildlife Refuges, Wild 
and Scenic Rivers). 
The Natives had a clear enemy in the 
person of Rep. Wayne Aspinall of 
Colorado, the chairman of the House 
Committee on Interior and Insular Af­
fairs. Aspinall has been opposed to In­
dian and Native rights for some time, and 
as chairman of the committee which 
initiates most Indian legislation and 
determines whether all Indian legislation 
will get to the floor of the House he 
exercises perhaps more power than 
anyone else in the Capital over Indian 
policy. It is a tragedy for Indian people 
that the man who controls their very lives 
is also openly anti-Indian, and a racist. 
The natives bad some friends, also, luc­kily for them. One of the true friends was Rep. Lloyd Meeds of Washington, who fought against taking away land· from Native villages just because they happened to live in areas later designated as restricted areas. Rep. Nick Begich, from Alaska, also stood by the Natives on the question of land selection, and without his support it is almost certain that the Act would have passed in a much different form. He continually pointed out that what was important to the Alas­kan Natives was not some money payment, or mineral rights, but the rights to the land and the freedom to live where their ancestors had lived for the past several thousand years. 

Summary 

In retrospect, the Natives of Alaska are better off than they could have been under the original versions of the Land Claims settlement, but they have still been denied due process and free choice in many important matters relating to their daily lives. Without their consent, they have been designated the "beneficiaries" of a coercive policy of as­similation, a policy that has failed for over 400 years in the lower 48. 
In effect, they have been denied the right to run their own atfairs. This will be up to the state of Alaska, the officials of the regional corporations (who will be largely answerable to the white officials of the state and the Secretary of the Interior) and to various federal officials. In addition, they are also on their way to being more pauperized by the gargantuan processes of the state and federal corporations; their resources will not go to them-most of "their" royalties and income from the land will go to the state of Alaska. Considering the oil alone, they will get less than a third of what they would be entitled to on the basis of population alone. This is clear robbery, and the cheating was done at the highest levels of government. The President, the Congress, and the Interior Department must bear the blame for the future im­poverishment of the Natives, and is a shame that it had to happen. It is only a matter of time before a once-proud people are further reduced in strength and human dignity. 
Testimony revealed that the Senate and the House recognized the fact that Natives lived where there were few jobs available, but made it almost impossible for them to develop industry. It recognized the importance of subsistence economies for the Natives, but failed to protect enough of the land for them to subsist on. 
In short, it is a string of compromises, aimed not at a fair settlement for the Natives, but only at what had to be done to get them out of the way for the oil drilling and other exploitation of the 
,state. 

40 IND/AN VOICE 

INDIAN WORLD NEWS 


The first year of life of the American Indian Press Association saw some ofthe most significant developments in Indian country in some time, and at times the amount of material coming to Indian editors looked like a veritable torrent. For the first time in history, Indian people have developed their own rapid communication system,·one which gets the news to its clients as fast as they can use it. And there is so much going on that it's hard to keep track of it all. 
But Year Number One saw a number of developments in the Washington Office of the BIA, as well as around the nation. The Kennedy Education Bill, which would have turned Indian education over to the local people, with the operation being responsive to an elected board of Indians at the national level, was shelved. · Edward Kennedy held numerous hearings all over the nation on the subject of Indian education, and his bill would have straightened out some of the mess it is in. But it would have taken away power from the BIA, and Commissioner Bruce recommended against its passage. 
Meanwhile, none of the pending In­dian education bills has gotten much ac­tion from Congress. The entrenched bureaucrats fight . them tooth and nail when they try to turn Indic;1n education over to Indians. 
AIPA covered the Washington scene thoroughly, and surprisingly to Indian editors, was able to cover all major Indian events happening around the nation. The fight of the Quinault Tribe to control its timber resources, the infighting at the Bureau of Indian affairs and its impact on Indian communities, the fishing rights struggle on the Northwest Coast, the growth of the Native American Rights Fund and the Indian Legal Information Development Services-all were among the news items and continuing stories brought to us by AIPA. 
The Year in Review 


The fight within the power structure in Interior and BIA was one of the most significant in some time, and represents an apparent victory, at this moment, for the forces which want to turn Indian af­fairs over to Indians. Commissioner Louis R. Bruce had started to do that last year, when Wilma Victor, a career bureaucrat in BIA and a Choctaw Indian, was suddenly taken out of exile in 
· Phoenix and made Indian advisor to Interior Secretary Rogers C. B. Morton, whom she had known . in the military during World War II. 
. She immediately jumped into the power fight, and succeeded in having Johri 0 . Crow, . another old-line bureaucrat, appointed as Deputy Com­missioner of Indian· Affairs. Crow was . temporarily given more power over In­dian affairs than Bruce, but when Indian people from all over the nation objected to this, his power was reduced by Morton. Crow had suspended the gran­ting of contracts to tribal councils to run Indian programs, among other things. · Although he is . still in office, he ap­parently is not the major hand in Indian policy; the Reservation Acceleration Program (RAP), a mixed-bag of Indian programs,. but which leans toward self-determination for Indians, has been set 
·UP and put into operation. 

The death .of Raymond Yellow Thunder, an Oglala Sioux from Pine Ridge, who was killed in Gordon, Nebraska, prompted one of the most successful fights by Indians for civil rights. The overwhelming occupation of the town of Gordon, by Indians, the hearings conducted by the American In­dian Movement, and the political legacy they left in the town and on the nearby Pine . Ridge reservation were all covered admirably by Charles Trimble and Richard La Course of AIPA. Without their help the actual movement would no . doubt have not been as sti 
they helped to bring the action 
justice to Indian people home 
dreds of thousands. The coveraae 
Yellow Thunder hearings may 
the emotional high point of the 
AIPA. Justice is yet to be done 
case, but without AIP A it would 
certain of being carried out. 
The significance of AIP A is 
short run effects, however; it is 
long-range effects the organiu · 
have in bringing the Indian people 
country closer together, and 
them well-informed on Indian e 
federal policy. Without AIPA, the 
news scene is very fragmented; 
news from Washington that a 1 
paper is likely to carry is news fro 
the tribal chairman makes to the 
and the news is almost certain 
limited to items of interest to 
local people. With the e 
coverage AIPA has given its 
newspaper clients, all · of our 
have been broadened. We can 
with what is going on in W 
which for Indians is very impo 
Thus, AIPA has provided one 
most important services to Indian 
of any organization over the 
and a half. They are to be con 
and more than that, they must 
ported, financially and spirituallY· 
present they live from day to day, 
sure how much longer they will be 
hold on but with help from all of 
will make it. Their address is R 
1346 Connecticut A venue, W "" 
DC 20036. The phone is (202) g. 
Give them a call or write theID 1 
and let them kn~w how much 
preciate all they are doing for 
people. 




WIGWAM . EVENINGS 
-The night is cold and clear, with a full moon overhead, and soon after Tanagela appears in her snug doeskin gown and warm robe of the 
pertanned with the hair on, drawing her little brother in a great turtle­
e,
ll over the crusty snow. Old smoky Day laughs heartily at the sight, standing just outside his door to watch for the coming of the children. Nor is this all, for in ':ke of this pair comes another dragging a rude sled made ofa buffalo's . well covered with soft furs, while still another has borrowed his mother's n ge raw-hide for the occasion: After their frolicsome ride through the brightly lighted village, they are all in a happy mood, ready to listen to the 
· teresting story of 
THE BADGER AND THE BEAR 
The Badger lived in a little house 
er the hill and it was warm and ug. Here, too, lived mother Badger the little Badgers, and they were t and merry, for the gray old Badger a famous hunter. Folks said he 
ust have a magic art in making ar­' since he never failed to bring in t enough and to spare! 
One day, father Badger stayed at me to make new arrows. His wife busy slicing and drying the meat 
over ~rom the hunt of the day be­f~re whtle the little ones played at bide-and-go-seek about the lodge. 

All at once, a big, clumsy shape ke~ed the low doorway. The chil­d hid their faces in fear, but father 
ger got up and welcomed the Bear ger.kindly. He was a large black · .His shaggy skin hung loosely
his l't l ' 
1 t e red eyes turned hungrily

the · 
to d stnps of good meat hung up 
t~ry, Be
0 seated, friend!" said the long .ger. He .lighted and passed the 
oiled:~,. whiI.e his wife at once hick slice of savory venison 
r the co 1 . ­
· a s and offered it to their
1 
a ~ a ~ooden basin. The Bear ate eate~~mg man, and· soon after he lillllllllllll e shuffled away. 
Next day the Bear came again, and 
on the day after, and for many days. 
At each visit he was invited to eat, 
according to the custom, and feasted 
well by the Badger, skilful hunter and 
generous host. 
After many days the Bear came one 
morning looking fat and sleek, and he 
had brought with him his whole family. 
Growling savagely, he rudely turned 
the Badger family out of their com­
fortable lodge, well stored with good 
food and soft robes. Even the magic 
arrows of father Badger were left be­
hind. Crying bitterly, the homel~ss 
Badgers went off into the woods to 
seek another place_ of shelter. That 
night they slept cold under a great 
rock, and the children went supper­
less to bed, for the Badger could not 
hunt without his arrows. 
All the next day and for several days 
after he wandered through the forest 
looking for game, but found none. One 
night, the children were so hungry and · 
cried so hard, that the poor old father 
at last said: 
"Well, then, I must beg for you!" 
So he crept back to his old home, 
where the Bear family now lived and -grew fat. Standing in the doorway, he begged quite humbly for a small piece 
of meat. 
"I would not trouble you," said he, 
"but my little folks are starving!" 
However, the Bear got up and turned 
him angrily out-of-doors, while the ill­
natured little Bears chuckled and 
SEVENTH EVENING 

laughed to see how thin and hungry he 
looked! 
All laughed but one, and that one 
was the smallest and ugliest ofthe cubs, 
who had always been teased and a­
bused by the others. He was sorry for 
the poor Badger, and when no one was 
looking he slyly stole a piece of his 
mother's meat and threw it into their 
hut, and then ran home again. 
This happened several times, and 
now the family of Badgers were only 
kept from starving by the gifts of the 
kindhearted little Bear. 
At last came the Avenger, who 
sprang from a drop of innocent blood. 
He is very tall, strong and beautiful, 
and is feared by all wrong-doers. The 
Bear saw him coming and began to 
tremble. He at once called to the Bad­
ger, who was not far off, and invited 
him to come and eat. 
But the Avenger came first! Then the Bear called upon his wife and chil­dren to follow him, and took to his heels. He ran as fast as he could, look­ing over his shoulder from time to · time, for he was really terriblyfright­ened. He never came back any more, and the Badger family returned and 
joyfully possessed their old home. 
There is no meanness like ingra­titude. 
by Charles and Elaine Eastman 
' }41{ 

42 IND/AN VOICE 





INDIAN RECIPES 

Dried Melons and Pumpkins 
Pick the best melons and peel them, taking out the seeds. Cut and slice the rind to be strung on sticks to hang in the sun to dry. Turn sticks often. When strips dry, string and hang them inside the house to store. (Pumpkins are dried in the same manner.) 
Lye Dumplings 
Sift 4 cups corn meal, one teaspoon baking soda, one teaspoon salt. Stir in boiling lye water from making ash lye to make a dough. Pour water boiling hot into dough, and let it thicken until it moulds, or holds its own shape. Cook covered in boiling water until done; it turns bright yellow when it is done. These dumplings are then used to cook with wild game-pig, turkey, chicken. 
Ah-Gee Chum-Bum-Gee 
I pound dried fruit 2 tablespoons brown sugar ( or honey) 2 cups corn meal, well sifted Cook fruit until about half done in enough water to cover fruit, plus about IYi inches over it. Pour fruit scalding hot over meal, soup and all. Ifmeal is not soft enough · to hold its shape with the fruit and soup, add boiling water. Mould into round oblongs and wrap in corn shucks lengthwise. Tie each end of the shuck and two or three times in the middle, drop into boiling water and cook covered until done. These are for the children, for 
between  meal  snacks,  like  candy  or  
cookies.  
Ash Lye  

Burn blackjack wood to ashes. (Hickory nut or black walnut may also be used.) Put ashes in cloth sack and pour boiling 
water through it, draining water into a . pan. This lye is used for making hominy and lye soap. 
(by Ann Kelly) 
Dried Corn 

Take good roasting ears, and cut the kernels from the corn. Spread on clean sheet, and dry in hot sun for 3 to 4 days. Store in cloth sacks. This is a basic food for all Oklahoma Indian foods. Hang sacks up high inside house. Corn was originally dried in baskets and woven mats, and was and still is a very popular food. 
Wah-We-No-Kone-Min-Guy (Osage) 
Gather green corn when too hard for ·· roasting ears and grate. Place the grated corn in the sun to dry. Cook and serve like rice or oatmeal, or use it to make bread. The jaw of a deer was originally used, with the teeth doing the grating. 
:t:· :·:·:· :·:·:· :·:·:· :·:·:· :~·:· :·:·:· :·~·-:·:·:~::l:·:·> 
==::===-==............ 
COOKBOOK 
Indian Voice is in the process of compiling a cookbook of various Indi­an foods. When published, this work will be the final word on Indian cook­ing throughout the U. S., Canada, and Mexico. 
If you would like your favorite In­dian recipe inserted in the cookbook, send it to us at P. 0. Box 2033, Santa Clara, Ca., 95051. 
It will contain recipes for everything from frybread to sassafras tea. If your recipe is chosen, your name will be listed in the book with your recipe. 
Let us hear from all you Indian cooks. The Editors 
===~==~===~:'.:'~ 

Cooking Contest 
To further our efforts to ed whiteman in Indian culture, Indian 
is now sponsoring an all-tribes contest. All contributions must be original (never in copyright print and should be designated for one following categories: (I) meat, (2) soup, (4) pastry, or (5) vegetable. 
First prize will be $25, second p 
. be $15, and third prize will be November 15, 1972 is the deadlind tries, and during the second December the final winners selected at a contest site to be anno Winners will be selected from the top ten finalists in each catego will be invited to contribute their dish for a final tasting judgem cookoff. The winners will be anno and prizes awarded there. 
Entries must be legible, in pen, or typewritten, and each recipe m on a -separate sheet. Because volume Indian Voice c acknowl;dge or return each ~pe. 
Indian Voice reserves the ngbt any recipe received, along with ~ of the contributor, in the magazine. 

IND/AN VOICE 43 

When this policy was pushed through Congress, the reservations were divided · up, and each one went to a specific 
Pembroke Magazine
denomination. When this happened, only the specified denomination could 
. and forget your t soc1etyd, Indians are still 

"8Y5-an 
· hilosophy. . . tbi~~s the ulti.mate reJectI~m 

--...:..:...ilationist philosophy. Jo.m­~ tream means forgettmg ~Jian and this t~e Alcatraz Ill fused to do. As 1t turns out re e thousands of other tbefC ar d the nation who feel aro~n and there are literally ;1tbousands of non-I~dians rt the right of the. Indian to y he wants to without the W:emment trying to chan~e I" Alcatraz brought out this 
Support 

the first day of the invasion rt started coming in. By. the second day of the occupatl<?n, rs, who had gone out with ugh food to cook one meal, lied with enough food to last clays. And during the long of the occupation the people island lived almost exclusively ,oocfwill of their white and non­supporters, which enabled many to tell their story to the world the mass media, through meet­0th concerned people, and visits to schools, churches, r institutions, hundreds of called or wrote in to the Alcatraz ting speakers to tell them had taken over Alcatraz. instead of the Indian being to hold his head up in white he could walk about un­Th~ In~ian was moving into Wlthm h~s own society, which start to live with and recognize 
of. ~is is a far cry from the . of chtldren who in the past ashamed to speak their own 
for fear they would be 11 or punished by some white 
tor. They col!ld now recog­tbe~ was nothmg wrong with r:,ne.s own lang~age, just as 
thmg wrong with being an 

go onto that reservation, so that not only · were Indians denied the freedom of practicing their own religion, but they were also denied the freedom of choosing which brand of whiteman religion they would have. Of course, most of the Indian people of today still reject the Christian religion, and even Indian people who .on the outside are "good Christians" still practice their. Indian religion in secret. 
After the reservations were divided up, the churches ran religious life 
. largely as they wanted, and ran the educational system as well, until Morgan became Indian Commissioner in 1889. Within 10 years he had done what he set out to do when he came into office-get the missionaries out of running the boarding schools and day schools under contract from the federal government, and turn this function over to the government itself. This was done in 1893, when the school em­ployees came under Civil Service for the first time. Within another few years, Morgan had succeeded in cutting off government money to the-missionaries altogether, but many of the schools run by the missionaries persisted, and are still in operation today, getting by with raising money from the public. (One of the more obnoxious of these is St. 
'Labre · Indian School m Montana, which sends out thousands of letters each year trying to raise money to brainwash Indian children into believ­ing .the whiteman's history.) 
In a recent open letter to the church leaders of America, Vine Deloria, the quotable Indian writer and scholar, called on them to reject the Doctrine . of Discovery, or the belief that it is the right of European, Christian man to rule the world, and that he has a further right then to extinguish title to lands belonging to non-Christians. This doctrine, he correctly stated, has been used to take all the land from Indians, and now is the time for it to take its place·in the museum of out­dated· ideas. He calls on them to lead the way to a greater understanding of Western man by recognizing that there is such a thing as Indian culture and history. "At each point," he says, "and in every aspect you refused to confront our (Indians') ideas, but chose instead to force your opinions, myths, and superstitions on us. You have never chosen to know us. You have only come to us to confront and conquer us." 
"We are completely helpless to ever maintain our lands, our communities and cultures so long as the major reason that they are protected is to enable the United . States to one day extinguish them as its legal right. ... " he continued. 
--For the poetry minded, Pembroke Magazine, published by Pembroke State University, Pembroke, N. C., is ~ust the answer. Each issue is 100 pages k>f poetry, book reviews and other items of interest to the literary minded and the historian. 
Professor Norman Macleod of the Creative Writing Program is the editor, and contributors come from all over the nation. Notable among them are Simon Ortiz from Acoma, Ray Young Bear, Randall Ackley, Norman H. Russell, and Robert J. Conley. 
The magazine is not limited only tc Indian work, but since it is part of the Lumbee Indian community, it does have considerable Indian input. It can bt ordered from Box 60, Pembroke, N. C 28372. 

And it is just this point which brought the Alcatraz movement its reason for wide publicity.-the direct challenge to the racist, imperialistic policies of the United States federal government. As long as the U. S. plans eventually, as it still does now, to one day claim alt Indian land, the Indian people are still in danger of being left homeless and in danger of genocide. Alcatraz directly addressed this question, and as a result gained thousands of supporters among the ordinary working people ·of the 
U. S., as well as people of all classes of American society. 
Political Legacy 

Before the Alcatraz takeover there were some 35 Indian organizations among the population of relocated Indians in the San Francisco Bay Area. Each of these Indian organizations had been working on Indian problems in its own way. Some were organized for social reasons, and threw regular pow­wows all over the area. Some were organized to help Indians look for jobs, and though they were poorly funded, and still are, they struggled along as best they could, and got some jobs and training for some people. Some were militant, and picketed govern­ment offices which were slow to act on Indian complaints. And some were organized purely for recreation, and . sponsored Indian baseball and basket­ball teams. 
Most of the groups were also social in nature; the offices and centers were 
(Over) 
44·.IND/AN, VOICE 
ALCATRAZ 
(Continued) 

places for friends to meet, to renew old acquaintances, and to enjoy fellowship. There was some inter-group contact, but it tended to be slight. With the daring invasion of Alcatraz, there was a thread for all the organizations to unite around-supporting the invasion and the invaders, because all the local organizations recognized the fact that the Alcatraz occupiers were fighting for the rights of all Indians everywhere. 
When the federal government, through the National Council on Indian Opportunity (NCIO) chaired by the Vice-President, expressed a desire to meet with the "responsible" Indian leadership of the Bay area in an effort to negotiate about the occupation, the stimulus was introduced for the later formation of the Bay Area Native American Council (BANAC), which has grown today into the most widely supported and strongest Indian organi­zation on the West Coast. It is made up of 25 of the local Indian organiza­tions, and has been highly successful in bringing the needs of urban Indians to the attention of the federal officials. 
Since its formation, BANAC has 
succeeded in having several needed 
programs in health, drug abuse, and 
alcoholism treatment for Bay area 
Indians funded, but more importantly 
it has fostered the formation of a 
national Indian organization, the 
National American Indian Council, 
made up primarily of urban and off­
reservation Indians, which could be 
the strongest Indian organization in 
the nation in the future. At the initial 
formation meeting in early March in 
Omaha, the hall was dotted with 
people· who had formerly lived on 
Alcatraz, and who are now working 
with their own Indian people around 
the nation. 

Emerging Leadership 
One of the advantages of the federal 
government in the game of trying to 
change the culture of the Indian is the 
fact that the government has taken con­
trol of all Indian resources. It literally 
took control of the land by force, the 
institutions, and everything else Indian 
people had, by fiat. 

One particular way this works is the 
"Indian leadership" game. When an 
Indian starts to emerge and speak out 
against the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
for not working in the best interest 
of Indian people, the first thing the 
Bureau tries to do is shut the person 
up. If this fails, and it sometimes does, 
the next thing the Bureau does is invite 
the person to come into the fold, to 
join with the Bureau in working on the 
"Indian problem." The only thing 
wrong with this approach, for Indians, is that the whole premise of the Bureau's existence is the converting of the Indian into a whiteman, and, as the Bureau officials put it, putting the Bureau out of business. The way they define it, the great day will come when there is no more need for the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and that day will come when there are no more Indians to "protect". 
The thing that is wrong with this is that many Indians do not want to cease being Indian to please the bureau­crats. And the Indian who joins with the Bureau to work on the "Indian problem" is also required to work on the Bureau's terms-the assimilation of Indians into white societv. 
The same type of tactic was tried with the Alcatraz occupation. Negotia­tions with the federal government had seemed to have been merely token gestures while the matter of deciding 
what to do with the island was left 
in the hands ofthe Interior Department. 
Interior houses the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs and eight other Bureaus (Fish 
and Game, Mine~, Reclamation, etc.), 
and in the past has been notorious for 
keeping all power over Indian affairs 
in its own hands. 

But during the first week of January, 
1970, the news came unofficially from 
Washington that the Alcatraz question 
had been taken out of the hands of 
Interior, and placed in the hands of 
the newly-formed National Council on 
Indian Opportunity (NCIO), which is 
ostensibly headed by the Vice-President. 
NCIO was created in 1968 to provide 
new opportunities for Indians, but had 
done little in the meantime except 
collect paperwork. Alcatraz was its 
first major task, and the head of the 
organization, Robert Robertson, a 
third-rate political hack who got the 
office because he successfully raised 
money for Nixon in Nevada, was 
determined to do what the adminis­
tration wanted done. 

Robertson, who had been an aide 
to Governor Paul Laxault of Nevada 
before being rewarded with the NCIO 
position, made his first appearance on 
Alcatraz that same ~ 
-L

month, and he made it clear that the first objective of the government had not changed; I
it was still to get the damned Indians off Alcatraz and the monkey off the administration's back. His first sugges­tion was that all the occupants move 
off the island except five men, who would maintain the Indian claim to the island and would be paid by the government. This time Indians, instead of laughing behind the back of the whiteman, laughed in his face. Robertson got a firm "No" on his suggestion. 
He _then proceeded to rn
eet
1eaders from around th who had not-been associe Alcatraz occupation dire:l whom had supported it in Y, another. Nevertheless, they ~ha~,Robe_rtson considered the s1ble Indian leadership fro the area. He hoped, of co thes~ leaders would have en suas1ve power to get the "y 
· tants" off the island. Robe clear that he did not accept bility of the people on that he would accept the a representative group frolll area at large. 

At the meeting, he held leaders with whom he met tlae of large sums of federal mo · ing available for the Bay area, for urban development, with that some of the problems Indians could be attacked. his sincerity about the pote gram was not doubted, many present at the meetings with· · this idea in the light of A variation on the old military of divide and conquer. (The program later came to be • as a sort of model cities Indians.) 
The doubters feared that if development plans were a mediately, to the exclusion Alcatraz question and befol'Q resolved, the government wo have been as successful as it in the past, using the divisive of money to shift the focus fr issue to one which would not nearly as much attention in mind. In the past government been able to find some Indian 
I --· ~





·,decrun· 
·• 
I~ 
• 
... -­
rugs pottery baskets 

,,­
zuni-navajo-hopi jewe,,' rare old pawn artifacts 
(two locations) 
513 Second Street, Da s_1_1_o_Freeport, Sacram 


"responsible" position under 

pt _a so the leader can ?e watched ir ~ing, d rather than bemg respon­,od d1rec~e ~wn people; but this time · 
. tO hIS 
failed.first meeting of all Indian · t the J 31
. the Bay area on anuary , ders 10 otion to make Alcatraz the I O. ad; of business of the proposed t 0.~tion was passed overwhel­
01 
. This motion defeated the gty. nt's efforts to buy off some 
ernrne I h f 
. leaders and pul t e rug rom I ia0 the Alcatraz movement, and 
er · f · · 
. . it of non-comporm1se o prm­hirs stayed with the leadership of pletr:ng BANAC organization to the 
nt day. . 
t subsequent _meetmgs of the or-iz,ation, the dire<.-. ors of ~ANAC tu her voted to stand behmd the rtpie of Alcatraz solidly while they ~ otiated with the federal government, vowed they would not accept federal money as long as the Alcatraz tion was unsettled. They refused to interfere themselves, as the BAN AC organization, with the negotiating pro­that had been started by the Jcatraz occupiers. The negotiating council called for, from BANAC, by 
government was never set up. 
ince the government stripped the people off Alcatraz under false pre­ten es last sumnier, the BANAC organization has proceeded to move on 1 own, and to become a power on 
Indian scene nationally. It is now composed of every major Indian or­ganization in the Bay Area, and now that the Alcatraz question has been 
lv~d unilaterally by the federal 
ovemment, has proceeded with its 
lans for Indian self-help organizations for the Bay area. 
Indian Higher Education 
Once the position of BANAC had nmade clear, the people on Alcatraz ed work on a proposal for a plan­ggrant which would have drawn up ns for the Cultural Center they
ted · · 
, on the island This proposal so ,000, was presented to Robert­
•Or 3()() • ' 
\ 00 . ~ebruary 21, 1970, when he 
visited the island, along with
fi
ive·memb . .
BA er executive committee 
,.,_ AC. 
•ne detail d 
ng It e proposal was 21 pages 
n. · called for a one-year concerted 
ning · 
ofes. action by a group of Indian ona1s 10;::ls. ':arious Indian profes­tontrib d either been writers or
Utors h
Clad pl on t e proposal. The CuitUral ~ of action to develop the enter, the Indian museum, 
the religious center, the ecology center, and the vocational training school was outlined, along· with the needs and justification for such a program. 
Robertson said at this meeting that he would take the proposal back to Washington, and would let the people on the island know within two or three weeks just what the administra­tion planned to do with the proposal. He kept his word. 
On March 31 , 1970, he returned to the island with the Nixon administra­tion's counterproposal. "We recognize and appreciate that your demonstra­tion on Alcatraz . has been without violence," he said, "that it was carried out in a peaceful manner. You have stated the hope that the government will act accordingly. So it has." 
He then proceeded to propose "that the highest and best use of the Island is as an optimum open area," which he defined as a federal park. The Indian involvement he envisioned would have had Indians employed as park rangers on the island, showing white tourists around the island, which would have housed an Indian museum. Robertson was so insensitive to the needs of Indian people that he could not see the slap in the face that this was for us. 
(Ultimately he had a chance to prove how peaceful and non-violent the federal government intended to be to the Indian occupiers. On Friday, June 11, 1971, after several months of what the government called "negotia­tions," 20 federal marshalls armed with rifles and shotguns raided the island and took the 15 people on the island at the time (many more were on the mainland on business), and immedi­ately set up a blockade which has lasted to this day.) 
The plan for the development of the Indian Cultural Center got no­where with the feds. They had never intended to honor any of their promises to the Indians on the island, and they never did. 
But the people who lived on the island for periods of time during the 19-month occupation also did some things other than occupying the island. They helped, some of them, in the attempts to take over the former Nisqually reservation land in the state of Washington, now occupied by Fort Lawton, an Army base. They took part in the Pitt River occupation of Lassen National Park and the Pacific Gas and Electric Company campsite. And they took part in the takeover of the Army surplus communications center at 
IND/AN VOICE 45 


Davis, California, which today is grow­ing into the strongest university for Indian people in the nation, under its new name, D-Q University. And in higher education, this institution may the lasting legacy of the Alcatraz in­vaders. It was clear that the federal government had no intentions of letting such a higher education center develop on Alcatraz. 
Indians The Losers 

History will probably prove that no 
one could say, ·but one could always 
speculate that the Alcatraz takeover 
made possible some basic changes in 
Indian affairs at the national policy­
making level. 
·The Bureau of Indian Affairs, headed by the Commissioner, is one of nine Bureaus in the Department of the Interior. The Bureau level is the lowest echelon in the administrative heirarchy in Interior, and the .heads of the Bureaus, as many have learned over the years, have little control of policy for . their departments. Many . times policy is literally dictated to the Bureau. head: the Commissioner, by an Assis­tant Secretary of Interior. Earlier this year, despite the recommendations of a panel in BIA which had studied the question of urban Indians and the federal government's obligations to thein, the Assistant Secretary for Land Management, Harrison Loesch, who is the immediate superior of the Indian Commissioner, ordered that the BIA would not engage in any kinds_of pr9­grarils for urban Indians. And' this­directive (in the form of a memoran­dum) undoubtedly came at the direction of the Secretary. 
Indians usually come out on the poor end of things when there is inter­. Bureau competition on an issue. A case m point is the irrigation projects and 
(Over) 


46 IND/AN VOICE 
ALCATRAZ 
(Continued) 

dams spread around the West. Many Indian reservations have literally had their water cut off, o~ largely diverted, in these projects, and as a consequence today are water-poor. These projects are pushed by the Bureau of Reclama­tion, which has a constituency of the large farming interests and power companies, and these power blocs obviously have more weight in the Department than do the Indian repre­sentatives in BIA. So Indians inevitably lose. · 
The other Bureaus-Mines, Com­merical Fisheries, Outdoor Recreation, and so on-all impinge on Indian land and resources at some time or other. Commercial Fisheries backed the sports and commercial fishermen ofthe North­west, who have been trying to do away with Indian fishing rights in the State of Washington for several years, and it is only in the past two years that even BIA has come in on the side of the Indians. For years BIA remained "neutral" on the issue, which meant that the bureau charged with protecting Indian interests would not do so. The Bureau of Mines ·was instrumental in negotiating the contract for strip min­ing coal on Black Mesa, Arizona­Hopi and Navajo land-under which the state of Arizona collects more taxes than the two tribes do in royalties, and in this case, too, BIA not only went along with Mines' plans, they actively pressured the tribal council members of both tribes into signing the contracts. 
The number of these instances is in 
the hundreds, and there is a good rea­
son that BIA does not stand up for 
Indian rights. Ever since the Bureau 
came into its own in . the late 19th 
century, one of its tenets has been that 
it would eventually go out of business. 
It would do so when there were no 
more Indians for it to "protect." And 
there would be no more Indians for it 
to protect when they were "assimilated" 
into the dominant American society. 
Assilimation Fails 
But in spite of over I 00 years of forced assimilation, it now appears that the Indian people don't want to join the "mainstream" of society, and instead want to retain their \Indian identy. But this has not stopped BIA. The assimilationist ideology has be­come ingrained in the thinktng of practically every top BIA official, and it is the program to which they are most committed. 
Part of the assimilationist policy calls for the destruction of Indi~n communities. It has been thought to be a bad thing that a group would want to remain separate from the mainstream of society, and retain their century-old customs and traditions, when all around them other people were making "progress" in the 20th century. And when one group or another wanted to make "progress" on Indian reservations by developing the water resources, the land for farm­ing, the range lands, or the mineral and oil rights, the ·BIA has been only too happy to oblige them, and in fact to encourage them to do it. As a result, almost half of the resources produced on reservations-potatoes, cattle, tim­ber, oil, gas, minerals, power, and water-do not benefit the people on the reservation, but go instead to the benefit of some powerful white busi­ness group or agricultural interest. 
Alcatraz pointed out the futility of this by taking over land that has be-­longed to Indians in the past. The central issue between Indian and white­man has been land since Columbus stumbled on the West Indies, and the reality of the Indian land situation does not promise to change in the near future. 
Within several months ofthe Alcatraz occupation, things did start to change in Washington. Louis R. Bruce, the Republican dairy farmer Nixon had found to be Indian Commissioner, started scouting around Indian country for some new blood for the high-level positions within BIA. He fired 17 high­ranking officials, or removed them to the hinterlands, and brought in new ones to take their places. Most of the new ones had been involved in Indian affairs at the state and local level, and half of them were Indian, a move that is in itself a radical departure from the traditions of the past 20 years. The last Commissioner to have Indians in num­bers in responsible positions in the· Bureau was John Collier, who left the office in 1945. 
Bruce's "New Team" was more "Indian-oriented" than any group of high Indian officials had ever been, and they proceeded to prove it by starting to stand up for Indian rights in several cases. But unfortunately for Indian people everywhere, many of the new ones were urban Indians or had worked for urban Indian organizations. This proved to be the perfect weapon for the assimilationist forces to defeat and 
There are 190,606 Quak world-119,934 in !he Unit:: 
Not one prescribes the flag (!f any) another Quaker Or his drum. Or piccolo. 
Qu~kers (members of the of Friends) are religious. for that. 
Quakers seek the Inner their relationships with man. No flags here, either. 
Their flags are their tea and concerns: Peace. Love. Education. Environment. of sexes and races. That of every man. Prison reform. Simplicity. Brotherhood. 
That's been going on for 31 There's nothing static about search goes on always and ways. 
FRIEND JOURN 
in its simple, modest waJ twenty-one times a year to Quaker life and thought t raise a flag here and then man's condition. 
Even if you do not want the coupon below and a few may give you something · Inspiration. Comfort. Hope. 
We will not try to make waver, a Quaker, or any out of you. Maybe together do some good. 
I 
Friends Journal, 152-A N. 15th Philadelphia 19102 
State~~~~~~ 
Please send me Friends Jo 6 months ($3.00); one year (Payment enclosed). 



tbeIIl in their efforts to repre­te. r1s The stronghold of the as­
Jodt3•• · · d 
·onist ideology is anff. has fbeen Offices, the top o ices o the Ard: the field, and several of the 
plfl d .
l)ireCtors starte puttmg pressure tribal leaders to protest the ac­dleof the "New Team" on the ground daeY were taking money from reser­pro grams and diverting it to 8 programs. The tribal leaders uust the "New Team" for fear 
were too urban. 
Battles in Washington 
Oae result was that the Commission­ed down to some extent in his for reform of the Bureau, which of the perennial plans of Indian .-mu"a:,ioners. When this became a p­several of the new officials quit, one in particular, Lee Cook, who been head of the Economic Devel­t unit, charged the commissioner breach of faith in not standing up Indian people. Cook, who is now president of the National Congress American Indians, the largest coali­of Indians in the nation, has been · charges at the Washington of­
ever since. 
despite the departure of Cook most of the other new officials replacements, and the ones whd left in Washington from the origi-New Team, have continued to th~ assimilatio~ policy of the iners mthe Bureau. Ernie Stevens, . t notable one still left in office, ma speech in Oklahoma earlier year that the motto of the ones left O,! one more Inch, not one more ' meaning the protection of . ~nd and resources is the highest ~ tern on their personal agendas, ba apparently hope to win the ttle to preserve Indian rights. 
Year. the new Office of Water ~th attorney Hans Walker ~ d, has been established speci­
1or the p -.
ri .urpose of protectmg 11.:_ ~!s to nver water in the West 
WIii •n its If · ' 
. ~ is a departure from the 
Policies. 

addition h . . . 
.......... _. ' t e admmistrahon of 
•oner Br h ­

llano uce as won approval 
unced pl f . ,
of ans or, a radical de­
2

lrain~ O-year policy in the area ttW11111111111-1:cg:rIndians. With the ap­. ion . •llon Mayer as Indian · t:rt~n _I 945, the movement e federal relationship 
with Indians gained steam and resulted in the Termination Resolution (HCR 
108) in the 1953 Congressional session. Along with this ideology, the officials decided something had to be done with , Indians on reservations, in order to ­make them leave the reservations and go to the cities. 
The result was the Adult Vocational Training (AVT) program, which gained Congressional approval at about the same time. Under this program, Indians have been transported to the cities been given training in some cases and gotten jobs in others, and turned loose. Some 110,000 Indian people have gone through this "program," and several thousand more will go through it this year. But earlier this year, Ernie Stevens announced the formation of a replace­
-ment plan for the urban relocation plan. -Under it, Indians would not be transported to the cities, but would be trained for the local job market on or near their own reservation. And since some $40 million a year is set aside for this program, it obviously is one of the most important items in the $500 mil­lion BIA budget. None of the proposed reservation-oriented training centers has opened yet, but the promises are continuing in Washington that th~ urban relocation program, long one of · the sore spots with Indian people nationwide for several reasons, will end with a planned phase-out, and be re­placed by the more humane reservation· training program. 
IUY -SELL -TRADE SYLVIA A ,uRRl IOVIS A,,R AISI 
JEWELRY

BASKETS RUGS, BLANKETS
POTTERY WEAPONS HADWORK IVORY CARVINGS QUILLWOR K BOOKS INDIAN ART RECOIDS PIPES 
BEADS -INDIAN CRAFTS SUPPLIES -WESTERN RELICS 
TUES. to SAT. 11 am to 6 pm
114 GRANT AVE 
SUN. & MON. by APPOINTMINT 
NOVATO CALIF. 94947 
ALL MAIL TO: P.O. IOX 26442,SAN flANCISCO, CALIF. 94126 
IND/AN VOICE 47 
Indians Win? 

It remains to be seen what effects these changes in Washington will have on the future of Indian communities. Even though Commissioner Bruce has called for the development of Indian businesses and enterprises on the reser­vations, rather than the dissolution of Indian communities which has been the official watchword, he has only limited power to actually carry out these pro­grams. There are still those who don't want to see such a thing happen, for pragmatic, political, and ideological reasons. 
Only time will tell what the outcome will be. It could be that Indians will eventually regain some of the power over their own affairs that was taken a hundred years ago by Congressional legislation. But it will be an uphill battle all the way, and it may take many more 
_ Alcatrazes to make it happen. It is a well-known fact that the federal bureau­cracy is not very responsive to the needs of citizens, and for Indians it is doubly so, because the bureaucracy has for s~veral decades had as its primary mis­s10 n the transformation of Indian people over into whites. Under this way of thinking, there is no need at all to .li~t~n to the people, because by defmit10n they have no voice in politics. The white politicians have decided that the Indian is unable to run his .own af­fairs, and unilaterally taken the power of running things away from him. It is 
(Over) 
48 IND/AN VOICE 


ALCATRAZ 
(Continued) 

little wonder then that the Indian in general is not highly motivated to par­ticipate in the whiteman's government. Despite the attempts of the whiteman to destroy tribal governments, they still exist, and are today growing back to their old strength and prestige. There is a continuing fight between traditional Indians and the "progressives" on every reservation in the U. S., and as long as the "progressives" continue to spout the rhetoric of the whiteman there will be these factions. Maybe the time is com­ing when the u. s. government will grow up and stop prying into Indian affairs, and let the traditional Indian governments assume their rightful duties. It just may be possible that the so-called representative form ofgovern­ment is not the best in the world, but if every government has this form when this fact becomes known, wouldn't it be sad for all mankind? 
Dean Chavers 


The Cornhusk Doll, who has·no face, goes through a series of adventures that try her soul, and finally she achieves her aim-facial features of her own. 
The work is of interest to anyone interested in Indian literature, and is available singly or in quantities from the Publishing Company at P. p. Box 2033, Santa Clara, Ca. 95051. Single copies are 
$4.25 each. Inquire about bulk rates, and discounts for classroom use. · 
.~ .......... ·-.....• •._. ......... • ......-.......... . 
, LOS ANGELES-David Lester, the Executive Director of the Urban Indian Development Association (UIDA) has been elected a director of Americans for Indian Opportunity (AIO). The · organization is directed by Mrs. LaDonna Harris, wife of Senator Fred Harris, and seeks to develop programs to advance the economic, ·social, and cultural progress of American Natives. 
Lester, a Creek, has managed a unique relocation assistance program in Los Angeles, and has been the head of UIDA for some time. Before that he was an economic development specialist with the 
· National Congress of American Indians. 
.•••••••••••••••••••••••.., 
: 
e 
e 
e 
:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•


: SUBSCRIPTIO N: 
One-year gift subscription r~~'?d'1~Nil}N--11.GD~lf;Ji::> 
~ ·11 . 
... will mail gift cards to your lucky friends, telling them your special giftis on its way! 
_* Canada and other countries add $1.00 for postage. 

am enclosing a check or money order for $ __for.__subscriptionS. 
J 

D 1 sub. 7. 50 D 2subs.15.00 D 3subs.22 .oo My name is_______....,...,..-----=-----------1­
,~pnntJ

Address:________'--_;,...____~~-----1P1111 
City._________.State·________ 

FOR A : 
I I 
FRIEND... :• I •
•
•

AGIFT •
•
•
•
• 
D year gift to_______ Address________ 
City.~~~~~~~ 
--------~-­
Sign card 

D year gift to!------·.. Address:_______,,.. 
City.____~ ----~ 

srare:..__-----­
Sign card_____ _ 

We'll hand sign ~n announcement card with name or nickname you choose. 
D PLEASE ENTER MY OWN SUBSCRIPTION, ALSO. 



JN PRINT! 

"THE SECRET OF NO-FACE" 
/ "The Lost _ \ ' Face of Cornhusk Do/7 
by 

Everett Parker (Two Arrows) and Oledoska 
FINALLY PUBLISHED!! "The Secret of No-Face," an epic tale of tile Cornplanter Seneca, is just off tile presses, and ready for your read­Int pleasure. 
To receive your FIRST EDITION IIIUdcover copy, fill in the coupon below and send $7 .25 ($6.95 plus 30¢ ailing and handling) to: Native merican Publishing Company, 
P. 0. Box 2033, Santa Clara, Calif­ornia, 95051. The paper back price is $4.25 (3.95 plus 30t mailing and handling). 
Get your copy by return mail today! 
~ ·,-:, Pl · . ,,:,:,• ,,:,:,• ,,:,:,•
41'..:,• ease mail to. •,•,•, •••••• •,•,•,
" . '•'•'• ······ ·····•
et,ve American Publishing Co. l'.O. Box 2033 
~t•Clara. C;lifornia 95050. 
ia~ e·ncio;in~ a 0ch0eck CJ 
money order o 


Indian Voice 
Wants Your Articles and Short Stories 
Want to write for us ? We need you to do it. There is something happening in your area that the rest of the world should know about. Or there is· a short story waiting in your head. 
Write them down. Then send them to Indian Voice. If you can send us pictures as well, we will at least pay you for the cost of the film . We want to pay you for writing, but at the moment we don't have money for it. _With you help we will have the quality in our magazine that will make money for us -then we can pay 
you. 
We started the magazine because we felt that Indians needed a voice in the government, on the local scene as well as the national scene. The white man can learn a lot from the Indian as well, if he will stop and take the time to listen. 
This is the reason, and if you think the way we do, help us out by reporting and writing; send us your literature if you don't have time to write; or send us ideas and notices if you don't have time for anything else. 
Let's make this magazine one for all Indians in the nation who want to use it. · The editors. 


BILL'S MODEL SHOES 
American Indian Arts and Crahs 
Jewelry-Pottery-Moccasins 

I 
' 
' 
I 
Bill's Model Shoe Shop 2945 College Avenue Berkeley, California 


INDIAN VOICE 4 9 
NEWS 
CCC 

The Coalition of Indian Controlled Schools Boards, Inc., one of the strong forces in Indian education today, is looking for qualified Indian people for its ·staff. 
Wanted are a coordinator, an ad­ministrative assistant, a staff attorney, an education/ community development spe­cialist, and a secretary/ bookkeeper. · Anyone interested in these positions should contact the president of the Coalition, Birgil Kills Straight, at 1506 Broadway, Boulder, Colorado, 80302. Applicants may also call collect. Resumes should be submitted directly. 
The Urban Indian Health Board ofSan Francisco is looking for qualified workers in the field of Indian health. They need two health aides, a physician, a registered nurse, a billing/ file clerk, a maintenance man-driver, and a recep­tionist-typist. 
Applicants should contact the Board at its offices, 56 Julian Avenue, San Fran­cisco, California, 94103. Phone is 863­8111, area code 415. 
At last there is an agency to work on the tremendous mess of straightening out Indian law. The Native American Rights Fund of Boulder, Colorado, recently an­nounced the opening of the National In­dian Law Library, which will eventually be the most complete (and only) source of . national Indian law and decisions in the nation. 
The center is of interest to any attorney working on Indian cases, but is also valuable for the average Indian to know about. Many times, the lawyer retained by an Indian is more ignorant of Indian law than is the client. Hundreds of cases in Indian law have been decided on the basis ofinsufficient knowledge ofthe law, simply because the field of Indian law is so intricate, perplex, and confusing. 
With some 5,000 Indian laws, Con­
gressional laws, 400 treaties, 2,000 gov­
ernment regulations, and a never-ending 
stream of departmental decisions, there 
is a definite need for a clearinghouse 
for Indian legal matters. 
50 ·IND1AN VOICE 
BACK 


ISSUES 

• 
... 1n case 
you 

missed us 

Now you can bring your IND VOICE collection up.to da order additional back copi your friends by completing handy order blank. All 75¢ each available only wh supplies last. 
Clip and Mail 

liilillll 
I '71 Month No. of
I 
of Issue Copies 
I I 
t March.I l Aprill May 

June July/Al)g. _ Sept./Oct. _ Nov. ­Dec./Jan. __ 
Total Total 

Issues _ Price.­
............ ····························· 
Please mail to: 
Native American Publishing Co, P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, California 95050 
......................... 
I am enclosing a check D money order D 

Speakers' Bureau 
Indian Voice has had numerous re­
quests from schools and other organi­
zations for speakers on Indian topics. 
In response to these requests, we have 
decided to establish a clearinghouse for 
Indian speakers, to be located at Indian 
Voice offices in San Jose. 

Since all the people who will be 
speakers are either working or college students, they will have to charge a fee for their time. The fees will be small, and will cover expenses and loss of time. They will be able to talk on Indian movements, religion, the tradi­. tional Indian customs, carving and art­work, painting, and several other topics. 
To get one of the speakers, contact 
Indian "Voice at 90 South Second St., 
San Jose, Ca. 95113 (which is the San 
Jose Indian Center, where our office is), 
or call (408) 294-3740. 
The Editors. 
EADY

BEADS BEADS 
Chainette Fringe on Spools 

Large Selections of Craft Items 
Special Prices for Quantity Purchases 
AT Larry's Costume & Novelty Co. 1645 W. San Carlos Street San Jose, Calif. 95128 
Phone: 293-6036 
Credit Cards Accepted 


INVIAN COLLECTOR'S ITEMS SHC:XVS ANV AUCTIONS-JEWELRY-BEA1))}0RK. A1<fIFACTS-COLLECTI0NS-B0UGHT-APPRAISEV FREE MAILING LIST 
THE NATIONAL INDIAN CENTER 1582 Colorado Blvd. Eagle Rock, California 
90041 




INDIAN VOICE 5 1 

THE PITT RIVER NATION 

(Photo by Marie-Helene Laraque) 

-----------------------.-1
ATTENTION SUBSCRIBERS 
Change of Address? Zip Code Correct? 
We can assure prompt delivery of your maga­zine if we show the correct address and ZIP· Code on your mailing label. (Postal regula­tions req uire us to file addresses according 
to ZIP CODE .) 
If you move, be sure to 
NAME_ _ _______________ 
STREET___ ______ _ _______
Fill out and mail to: 
CITY__________________
IND/AN VOICE P.0-Box 2033, . 

Santa Clara, California 95050. 
____________________________.....; _________________ .-----­
STATL--______ _ _____ ZIP_ ____ 


BULK RATE 

, U.S. POST AGE 
PAID PERMIT ·NO. 2040 
P.O. BOX 2033 
SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 
SAN JOSE, CALI F 
' 
' 
' 
l__ 










