
Keep Alaska 'Off Limits' 
The land claims f the Alaskan Native 
Americans must be settled by congress by 
June of this year. The land freeze now in 
effect ends at that time and the State of 
Alaska can take the land it wants. 
The legislation passed last July (S 1830) by the Senate would give the Alaska Native Americans less than 3% of 37p million acres which has been their homeland for thousands of years and to which they have a valid moral and legal right. The bill would also terminate the Alaska Native Americans from the service of the BIA and allow only min­ority vote on the Commission that will ad­minister the money settlement. Both the House and the Senate must act before any settlement is final. 
Only the settlement of the Alaskan Native Americans land rights holds the money hungry plunderers from the race to exploit the vast untouched reserves of timber, minerals and above all.. . oil. So great are the stakes that billions of dollars will be spent by the promoters just for the legal right to plunder. 
Only congress · can make a land settlement with Alaskan Native Americans. The pressure on the legislators for a quick settlement is tremendous. The m ch over-used ruse of resource shortages, national defense, job creation, development and progress is being replayed by the easy money crowd. No concern for just settlement of the Native Americans moral and legal land title rights is given. No regar to the report by a group of the leading Ecologists of the country which states that planned exploitation would 'cause inevitable chronic . damages and pos­sible catastrophic damages to land and marine resources. ' 
We urge the Ame ican public and their representatives in gorernment to refute this pressure for immediate exploitation of Alaskan natural resources regardless of the guise given... national defense, development, pro­gress, jobs, etc.... 
We suggest that this country utilize its idle scienti-sts and technicians to develop the technology to mine the mountains of shale oil located in the western states. mountains 
(Cu11tinued o page e ighteen) 
I 
I 
I 
. I 
0 
Map shows location of proposed Alaska oil 
Native land rights 
The oil industry in its demands for a righ way across Native lands presents the Nation w· clear test of its determination to deal hono with Alaska's 60,000 Indians, Eskimos, and Al 
A consortium of seven oil companies, Aly Pipeline Service Company, proposes to construe 800-mile pipeline to carry crude oil from the Arctic Slope fields on the Beaufort Sea south t all-weather port of Valdez on Prince William S Alyeska hopes to begin construction this spri 
The stakes are enormous. The cost of the line is estimated to be $2 billion. It is rep that the Arctic Slope oil strike of 1968 has "conservatively" valued at $60 billion. The Atl Richfield Oil Company, on lands at Prudhoe that were expropriated from the Natives by the 
of Alaska, has already identified reserves esti 
at 3 billion barrels, with a net profit per b 
estimated to range from 60 cents to $1. 00. 
this is just the beginning. 
Alaska Native leaders assert that their land r· which have been held in abeyance since the pur of Alaska from Russia in 1867, must be settl Congress before the Department of Interior g a pipeline right-of-way over lands they claim. New York Times comments in an editorial, seems inconceivable, either in law or simple tice, that the project would be launched unt' Native claims to the land are fully and satisfac settled." 
If the construction of the pipeline becomes a of national defense emergency, Native leaders pose that President Nixon exercise his legal autb to withdraw from the public domain lands alo pipeline route for the benefit of the Natives, mitting them to lease the right-of-way to th companies. 
Government and oil industry officials are be ing increasingly aware that the Natives are a to be reckoned with. In a law suit that haS ceived li_ttle public attention, the Athabascan In of Stevens Village on the Yukon have won a fe 
(Cont i nued on page eighteen) 
INDIAN VO 
THIS MONTHS COVER 
. ture on the cover is a Th ~ p1c fa painting by Oscar re print o wn Sioux artist. 
a reno 
o e, describes to the boys The manl . ts rec o rd e d on h i s 
. e )( p O I 15 E ge ration was acc~p ted 
epee -xag . t
•ct ing of ach 1evmen s,
t he depi • they had to be to 1d wI th 
o eve r 11 
accuracy or the te er
t
abso 1u e d 
o the story would be disgrac~ . 
-------------------------------~--------------­
.
\ OJCF ' the all Indian 'I OJA\ . ~e 1 s published
, I rn a g" z 1 • .11 a l 1 v e Arne r i c a n Pu b l _1 • 
11 
(ornpar.), a non profit
10 
.in1zal , 0 11, to present _ an vi ew of the American 
• u t n i . J d 
J1d1an h1stor), cu ture an 

Jt \l,I I 1 endeavor to ~h e 1l 11pe .~, fears and <II'< of thuse who are ·dt ve Americans.
1 
t:d Lt (),. 
FER WILLIAMS ( Sioux ) 
PH: 2 4 6• 144 2 
\, ,r1< 1 c1 t e Edit u ,. 
R DY CASAZZA ( Seneca) 
\ ,~ ,,ct 11 t <' Ed It or 
MOKEY SILENT FOX ( Sioux) 4 ~,,c iat e Editor ARCHI E BLACKSMITH ( Sioux) 
ecretary-Tr easurer 
1ARY ANNE NAVARRO {1; i o\, a J ! I Lu., tr <1 t ur RTH UR MILLARD (Cuechan) 
Executiv e Staff HANSEN (.il'<,fl,:1,-l'ut•b i r1 ) 
JERRY ROYBAL (,Jir·a r i I l,i) GEORGETTE BOYER (--; i OU Xi 
I d dt-1 ~ ,· " mni e n r ::, 1 11 t Ii ,. f " r ni ,r l•ttcr~ 1o r ~rt1 c !t-,-, 
drt" 
1; l1r 1 ed and 1i,, p ] c"m" . f'lt-;, ,-; p " 1 I I ,, u r " r t I c l e :, l , , 1-.J 1 t , , r ,
r·'1• I\•• , 2 (d ~ , '-H n t ,, t. I a 1 ,, , 
I , ,, r r, I ~ <; 5 IJ 'i I . 
'LB CRlP TION DONAT ION ( 
5. 00 Yearl y 
j
.. ··----·---­
LETTERS 
• lnclo ed is a check of five dollars 
/0 er a year subscription. m ~n~ratu.1ations for your excellent Cul~~~ne that _will keep alive the Indian 
Ind1 and tighten the bonds between n from different backgrounds. 
John Bordenave 
n Jose, Calif 
---------~·-------~­
• Find enclosed a check for $5. 00 to pay for a year's subscription to the Indian Voice. We hope to use the magazine for information for our local unit of Kings Daughters. 
Bernice E. Will Cupertino, Calif. 
• I am disturbed by the way you lump all whites into one mass.. . I happen to be Caucasian.. . 
If the Indians had taken advantage of all the opportunities this great country has offered them, there wouldn't be reservations today! 
Joseph Boutriea Jackson, Miss. 
• Enclosed check in amount of ($6. 50) as subscription to INDIAN VOICE (One year) and two additional copies of the March issues at 759 each. If you can start my order with the current issue I would appreciate that very much. 
Mr. Blacksmith tells me that you are able to use additional poems and articles. I1ve two poems in the mill and hope soon to write on the subject of Dr. S'hiuhushu, who attended Car­lisle School and worked to establish an Indian National Holiday. 
You are doing a good job with the VOICE, as you did on the SMOKE SIGNALS. 
Ed Falkowski Campbell, Calif. 
• Please accept my subscription to your fine magazine. My son's teacher let me read her March issue. 
When I was a child, I lived with an Indian family while my mother was re­cuperatiµg from a serious illness. I cherish the two years spent with these fine people and know that my life has been richer because of it. 
I believe all white people could learn and benefit as I have by accepting part of the Indian philosophy of life. 
Clara Johnston Creston, Iowa 
• It would be a terrible loss to the world if the Indians totally succumb to the ways of the whites. The Indian philosophy of life is human and good. 
The 'Voice' is helping to keep the Indian traditions and culture alive. 
Enclosed is my check for subscription.  a  year's  
Windom,  Minn.  Barb ara  Cloit  

~ 

I 
' ' He's taking a pol l ...he wanted to know what we think of the FOREIGN AID POLICYV'' 

CHIEF RICHARD FRANK 



"Land... 
Our only thing!" 
WASH. DC: Testifying before legislators, Chief Richard Frank (Athbaskan) voiced fear of the white men's proposal to buil~ a giant pipeline that would carry hot oil across Alaska. It would pass 20 miles from his village of Minto, Alaska, crossing all six of the waterways feeding Minto Flats. 
A serious oil spill or the departure of the moose could mean a sudden end to the edge-of-starvation hunting cul­ture, and Chief Frank is afraid. 
In the 1930's, he recalled, gold miners dug up the streams at the headwaters of Minto Flats and "filled it up with sand and mud and filth." 
"Nothing has yet happened on the pipeline which makes us believe the pipeline in the long run will benefit us." 
"The land that's been dam­aged by oil," he said, 11 can­not be rebuilt. These are the things that we fear would be lost forever." 
"You may ask why we want our land since we are poor, " he said. 
"The land is the only thing we own, it is our way of life, it is the only thing we have to fall back on when nothing else works. " 
19 7 1 

Indian College Funds Slashed 
Educational Opportunity Funds for the state college system are being cut back from $4 .1 million requested by the trustees to $1. o million by the Governor in his new budget. This year E. 0. P. had a state wide budget of $3 . 3 million. We cannot allow this cut to happen. We will have more Indian students next year and less money ($1. G million) to serve them. What does this mean to you? 
E. 0. P. is a special admission program for minority and/or dis,­advantageous students. The over­whelming majority of the Indian students in the state colleges are there directly because of the Edu­cational Opportunities Program. The majority also receive financial aid, tutoring, and counseling through the various college E. 0. P. 's. The governor's new budget for next year does not include any financial aid for second year E. 0. P. stu­dents and cuts the E. 0. P. grants for first year students from a maximum $7 00 to a maximum of $300 for the whole year. This new budget is going to severely limit Indian higher education in California, just as we were begin­ning to make significant advances on our low average academic level. Your children's opportunities for a good education are going to be limited, just at the time when Indian education needs to be ex­panded; your children, if they are already in a state college, will receive much less money to live on next year as a result of the Governor's proposed budget. 
The time for action is now. This budget can be changed if enough people show they care. If you are concerned about Indian education in general and your own child's education in particular, there are several things you can do to help the fight to bring the budget up from $1. 6 million to $4. 1 million and to continue to expand the opportunities for Indian students in the California State College system: 
1. Find out who your local state assembly men and state senator are and go visit them personally­this can be your C. I.E. A. area representative, I. T. C. C. represen­tative, your tribal education com­mittee or just you as a concerned tJarent. This is the time to find your legislators in their home dis­tricts. Go to them and express your concern about the drastic cut-backs . 

2. Write: a) Governor Ronald Reagan, State Capital, Sacramento, California; b) Your local Legisla­tors ; c) These committeemen: Leroy 
F. Greene, Chairman Assembly Committee on Education, State Ca­pital Building, Sacramento, Cali­fornia; Kenneth Cory, Chairman, Assembly School Finance Sub-Com­mittee , Room 4202, State Capital Building, Sacramento, California; John Vasconcellos, Chairman, As­sembly Higher Education Sub-Com­mittee, Room 4202, State Capital Building, Sacramento, California; James W. Dent, Chairman, As­sembly Administration & Personnel Sub-Committee, Room 2120, State Capital Building, Sacramento, Cali­fornia. 
Senate Committees: Mr. Rodda, Chairman, Senate Education Com­mittee, State Capital Building, Sac­ramento, California; Mr. Collier, Chairman, Senate Finance Com­mittee, State Capital Building, Sacramento, California. 
If you only write one letter, let it be to Governor Ronald Reagan, but try to write to all the above mentioned people. 
d) Make petitions, have them signed and sent to the Governor. This corning year will be the severest test for Indian education in California. Please help. We cannot afford to 
take a step backward at such a crucial tirne. 
SAMPLE PETITION 
In reference to the Governor's cutback to the $1 . G million Slate allocatccl money for Educational Opportunities Program . 
We , the undersigned, request the state legislators to fully allocate the $-1 . l million as proposed by the State College Board o[ Trus­tees. We also feel that this is the minimum amount of money needed to continue the E.O. P. Program. 
We also feel that it is impera­tive that the operational effective­ness of the state E. 0 . P . program be maintained, in order to alleviate the educational inequities of our society. If this money is not al­located, E. 0. P. will cease to be an effective program. 
David Bomberry (Cayu ga ) 
is teacher-activist at t he Sta College at Long Beach, Cali As Associate Director of Educational Opportunity Prag and a strong proponent of high educat i on for all Indi an you he is greatly disturbed over cuts in education fu nds. article is printed on th is pa 
Hawkins New B Education Head 
IVIINNEAPOLIS, MINN. : (IC Newsletter) James Hawkins, f mer BIA-MPLS. area Direc has been named as Director Education, BIA, at the Washin level. Many Indian leaders re this selection because of Hawk constant switching of jobs. He comes familiar with his job, he leaves. Another reason for sentment is that there are num ous qualified and capable Indi who could have headed up most important position. 
Commissioner Bruce just rccc promised self-determination involvement at top level posi · at the March 8-1 2 Kansas meeting. When he returned to he made this appointment. 
Like Father, Like Son 
A Tribal Chairman was by his son, "Dad, did you Sunday School when you boy ?" 
"Yes, son, regularly," the Chairman. "Gee, Dad, I guess it won' me any good c ithe r ! " 

4 INDI AN VO 

1NDIAN 


SM ARTS 
h woodland Indians refrainedTfrom eating salt except for the , lt found naturally in their foods. 
\ hy? Because mosquitoes are av­
i ly attracted to people whose per­piration contains detectably high mount of salt. That's what I all "Indian Smarts". 
Th Great Plains Indians played it real cool, too. The feathered · ddr ses were a real asset hil bunting antelope. The ante-I p , timid animal, is one of 
• mo t curious. The huntsman th wide open prairie found that l1uttering feather on the head of hunter seemed to draw rather h n rep 1 the antelope. Thus the ·1th red headdress was used to r · t d antage. It is also inter­tm(T to note that not more than ,o or three feathers were worn urin the hunt. More than two r three feathers ceased to simu­1 the surrounding backbrush or I \\ 'rowing trees with a leaf or o_ fluttering in the breeze. More 
In 1 n marts. fhe woodland 
Indian was highly
Pted to his 
environment. He er wore a large headdress. he wore the short brush ufficient to keep the head warm, to allow the hunter h quietly through the under­' arrct to ward off unwanted 

n Cl 
I Ttlhe ·,,oodland hunter wore as 
e clothi 
1 h ng as necessary during ~n_t. He could not afford to u ht H , clothing and trappings01 snagged on the ever 

I L 1971 
present tree and brush obstructions. Thus the advent of simple leather leggings, breach cloth (fore and aft) and leather jacket. Due to the possibility of snagging, the woodland Indian had short fringes on his leather garments. Now that's Indian Smarts. 
Have you noticed the different types of True Native American footwear? It's really quite fas­cinating. All footwear is based on the need to protect the human feet but how different the product in different localities. 
Look at the long legging types worn by the Southwest people. Hot daytime and cold night time sands, rocky terrain, cactus, sage, grease wood, insects, snakes, occasional snow and ice demanded a protection of special nature. The Southwest Indian with his usual Smarts de­veloped a foot and leg protection that has not been surpassed to this day. 
There is one more point to en­hance. The American Indian went barefooted as much as possible. The footwear was for hunting and inclement weather and especially for ceremonial and social occasions. The ceremonial and social footwear was beautifully decorated and ex­pertly stitched. 
Know why the Indian had fringes on his sleeves and leggings? There were several reasons, but the mo­tivation was utility. Each fringe length was a potential repair for clothing, lodge, dog harness ,or whatever was held on or together by stitching or binding. Tear a hole in your leggings or in your tunic, pluck a strand of leather fringe, make a stitched and laced repair, and off you go again. 
How about the Crazy Indians that gather wild grass, dampen a hand­ful, twist or braid the grass, set the twists out to dry and for cer­tain socials or ceremonials, burn the sweet smelling hay which in turn emits a most pleasant odor. Then, too, in the cold winter months, twists of hay with dry buffalo chips were burned for warmth and for utility purposes. Think about it. That's real Indian Smarts._________ 
Following Orders I 
On June 25, 1876, in Montana, as he was leaving the military fort, General George Custer turned lo his I3L\ man and said, "Don't do an:vthing-until I get hack.'' 
rlk'~ still waiting-!) 

Stand Taken On Legislation 
ST. PAUL, MINN.: Minnesota Indians packed the State House Hearing Room when they appeared before a legislative committee on a wild rice bill. Led by Chief Simon Howard of the Pillager Band, the Indians amazed the Attorney General's Conservation Staff, the Wild Rice Buyers' Association, and above all, the legislative members, with their deep understanding and knowledge of Federal-Indian re­lations regarding land and resources rights , probably to the point of legislation favoring the Indian. It is high time that Indians take a stand on State legislation. We need more of it. 
Desecration Of Graves Protested 
ROCHESTER, N. Y.: The North American Indian Club of Rochester, the Gannagaro Association, and the Tonawanda Indian Reservation are promoting legislation to halt the "wholesale looting and desecration" of Seneca Indian graves near Vic­tor, by three private excavators. 
The excavations are said to be taking place at the site of Ganna­garo, the early capital of the Seneca Indians. New York State has appropriated $325, 000 in the 1970-71 budget for acquisition of Gannagaro which has been declared a national historic landmark by the Department of the Interior. 

In the process of self-determin­ation, Native Americans of all tribes are banding together to study and learn the ways of the white man to better serve their people. Pictured above is Dennis Belindo (Kiowa-Navajo) addr~ss­ing a Work Shop Class held in Sacromento, California on March 26th. The class was sponsored by 
the ITC (Inter-tribal Council of California). 

SENATOR EDWARD KENNEDY ' 'The BIA has historical 1v shown itself incapab l e of pr~viding education for Indian children! '' 
Indian Education Bill Introduced 
WASIITNGTON, D. C.: Senator Kennedy has introduced a new In­dian Education Bill which would amend Public Law 874 so as to combine and expand assistance to Public Schools in meeting the edu­cational needs of Indian students; provide funds for pilot and demon­stration projects related to Indian educational opportunities; and add an amendment to the Adult Edu­cation Act which would provide special educational programs for adult Indians. 
The bill provides that federal funds be used for the specific edu­cational needs of Indian students. The new bill would require Indian involvement in the funding process on the local level and establish a Deputy Commissioner of Indian Education in the Office of Edu­cation to co-ordinate and admini­ster the Indian education programs. 
"The BIA," stated Kennedy, "has historically shown itself incapable of providing satisfactory and rele­vant education for Indian children." 
In concluding his remarks on introducing the Indian Education Act, Senator Kennedy quoted from his subcommittee report: "past generations of lawmakers and ad­ministrators have failed the Ameri­can Indian. Our own generation thus faces a challenge. We can continue the unacceptable policies and programs of the past, or we can recognize our failures and re­new our commitments, commit­ments which are essential to the restoration of this Nation's legal and moral integrity!" 

trapping
.Id 
---:--= --~--jjt---­
WI _.~ --;_/ -,. :.:=-. ~!ifj? .r. _ -_ 
__ _..-......._,.. I .,,­
~
•.:::~-___,.: -,,,,, .,. --I /._
game "., -.:~•f ~,~-, -;;: 
~ ~ _.r-· r---· __ • ~I:J{~o!(J~), 
{• . -}f,LLAXb ->t , >~~ v"' ~ '!..,,...,,.1_;.,., ; --__·-__--& !---...._-...~------~r,/11~f ~ '\_ I ~ '!" _ ,: -· .,~ ',, :_ ',._ \1;:~ 
he Native ' American's -"oneness" with nature
t dictated that he use other living things only J' for self-preservation, and so for him hunting was not a sport. Animals provided him not only food, but also shelter, clothing and implements. Game was bagged by any practical means. 
The habits of animals were well known by the hunters, and this knowledge was used to good advantage. When a cornered bear stood on his hind legs to attack, the hunter might suddenly toss it a spruce bough to hug and during that brief moment of helplessness, a stone ax would crash on its head. During bad weather, deer gathered in protected ·"yards" and were easily surrounded and slaughtered in numbers enough to fill the immediate need. Buffalo herds were stam­peded and then driven over a cliff, thus providing meat and robes for the whole tribe for months ahead. 
Deadfalls were set for the larger animals an'd heavy log or several of them, supported at one end a couple of feet off the ground by a samson post to which bait was attached. The slightest touch would cause the post to slip and the logs to fall. 
The simplest snare was a spring sapling, bent to the ground and held there by a thong attached to a delicately adjusted trigger on which bait was placed. A slip noose tied to the trigger line caught any animal that touched the bait. 
r 
'\ 

Top BIAStaff Member Resigns 
. GTON, D. C.: (AIPA) Er­\\.\ HI ns a top Indian staff
t teve ,
11 Of the new BIA team, an­
1 ,mb r D. t 
n d h's resignation as irec or nouncc i ·ty Service to be ef­
ol 0 mmum. . 
, .\. in m1d-Apnl.lt:t_l( \. ns, an Oneida Indian, char~ed •• f support from the Interior 
1
la t 1Cnt as the main reason for 
P •par 11 1 d th t
•o·t1,..t1·0n He b ame a
hi -re li:-, <L • • 
_ .lrncnl for reversing and hold-
cI 'I),11 · · , 
. in-m of the Comm1ss10ner s 111~ .U\) . '1·or Indian Sclf-Determi­
l o1LC I " 
nation. • R
Indian commissioner. Louis . . J,ru, and a team of fifteen h~gh lcv Indian assistants last f:111
1 introduced new and controversial polici s in the structure and oper­ation of th BIA. "They (Interior Department of­ficial ) have made the Commis­ioner look weak, but he isn't," vens said. "He's strong, but th y refuse to support his de­ci ions. ' "::\Ii understandings of these poli­·i , " according to Stevens, 11 even put ome of the tribes in oppo­~ition lo Bruce at the very time h, \\ a trying to give them the ,1uthority they had always been 
·1kinr for . " 
'l v ns charged some BIA field offi ials of 'politicking in Congress and in the Interior Department' to hav Bruce's decisions reversed. "It would be interesting for Indian 
eople to know that the BIA can't really control even their own per­
onn 1, ' he said. "And I'm not talking about decision making alone, but in routine matters too." 
H feels that the BIA will con­tinu \ ith its policies of full In­
ian participation. He said that h i not leaving the Indian scene, and that whatever he is doing he 
·,i.ould be vocal!" 
Biased Image Of Indian Protested 
L .' ,\ i UELES. CAL.: Twelve !nembers of lhc Indians of All 
fnb .
h· . . \\ere :..tlT('sted here after 
11111110
' themselves inside the outl1\\e t Museum for the purpose 
1'1
0 ~' cnting demands that would 
nd inhuman , d . . .
b < <111 1 ac1st practices
1
t 1c :\lu eum. · Ian tr· I ,
1 )CS are represented
h
l O "h di 1 
,..., P ays of pottery, cloth-
PR IL 1971 
ing, basketry, scalps, human bones , 
sacred  ceremonial  articles ,  etc.  
The  Museum  is  a  typical  Indian  
Museum;  Indian,  in  that  the  con­ 

tents focus on the Indian, slander­ing, misrepresenting, and causing the Indian to be treated as a relic , something of the past, a heathen museum piece-all in the so-called 'interest of science'. 
The following statement and de­mands in part was issued by the 'The Indians of All Tribes': "We occupy the Southwest Museum to protest the false and biased image in which our culture is portrayed and we protest the sacrilegious display of all Native American ob­jects which are sacred to us. The anthropological, ethnological, intel ­lectual community, upon which this and all other museums are based, has continued to ignore the true circumstance surrounding Native Americans and their genuinely re­ligious way of life." 
"The objects on display here only perpetuate the myths and ignorance that still prevail among the white majority. We are a people with a rich and beautiful heritage that will not die. It is our beautiful heritage that keeps our spirit alive in spite of all measures used to exterminate us!" 
"We require that all policies and exhibitions of the Native Americans in this museum and all other mu­seums coincide with Native Ameri­can tradition." 
"We are a religious, non-violent people who want to bring out to public view, the naivete of the white man in portraying the role of the Native Americans." 
Group To Market Arts & Crafts 
RENO, NEV.: A national mar­keting organization for Indian and Alaskan Native products is being set up with a $500,000 grant from OEO. The organization will be known as the Native American Merchandising Enterprise, Inc. 
The purpose of the project is to develop a central marketing organization for Indian arts and crafts which will provide the In­dians with fair prices for their craft. 
The OEO Indian desk is expected to fund the project for two years and the corporation will set up headquarters in Denver with an office in New York. 
Pit River Tribe Would Raze Dams 
WASHINGTON, D. C.: The Pit River Indians asked the federal government to allow them to tear down the dams and power stations which have transformed their sacred river in Northern California into "a series of stagnant, polluted artificial reservoirs." 
Attorneys for the tribe petitioned the Federal Power Commission to refuse renewal of Pacific Gas & Electric Company's licenses to operate its dams and related power facilities along the Pit River which winds thr ough the tribe's ancestral lands in Shasta County. 
The Pit River Indians contend in the petition that PG&E has "transformed a once wild and free flowing stream into a series of stagnant, polluted, overheated, silt­ing, artificial reservoirs and scarred the length of the river with the heavy hand of 'progress'. " 
The Indians' attorney, Aubrey Grossman of San Francisco, called the petition "an attempted break­through to get a court to order the return to the Indians of land which was admittedly taken without the Indians' consent or payment." 

The L ord ' s Prayer takes on a new dimension of beauty when expressed in Indian sign langu­age. Sara Bradley(Arikara) gave expression to prayer during a cultural program held at City College in San Jos e, Calif. The program also featured Indian tribal dances. Th e program was sponsored by the Native American Club. The club,organized several years ago by Indian students, also brings speakers on campus for the American Indian History Class taught by Jack Burrows. 



Archie Blacksmith, Cha rles Menard, and Ll oyd Sp ot t ed 
Elk  at  the March  Sioux Pow  
Wow  in  San  J ose.  I t  was  a  
good  one!  

Buffy Annoyed By "fo,rgeries" 
NEW  YORK,  N. Y.: Buffy Sainte­ 
marie  (Cree),  the  popular  folk  
singer,  is  loudly  vocalizing  her  

annoyance with the current women's fashion rage-the beaded and fringed "Indian fashions". 
"Why do society women keep wearing these forgeries?" Buffy asks. Many of the clothes cost up to $700 and Buffy says it is insensitive, in the light of Indian poverty, to publicize these clothes and give awards to those who de­sign them. 
She is not opposed to women dressing up to look like Indians, since they are probably well-mean­ing. But she says : 
"They cannot salve their con­sciences by wearing Indian dresses . Why don't they stretch their in­terests to include our problems? Why don't they see to it that the people in the fashion industry who are making money off "our thing" share it with the poor people of our reservations ?11 
Broken Treaty 
Stirs Students 
DURANGO, COLO. : (AIPA) In­dian students at Fort Lewis Col­lege are waging an around-the­clock demonstration against a pend­ing bill in the Colorado legislature which will limit tuition waivers for Indian students at that school. 
As a result of the opinion of Attorney General Duke Dunbar, the state of Colorado is no longer 
obligated to admit Indian students tuition free. 
In 1910, the U.S. Government granted over 6, 000 acres of land to Colorado for use as a learning institute. A major prov1s1on of that grant stipulated that "Indian students shall at all times be ad­mitted to such institute free of charge for tuition and on ~erms of equality with white pupils." 
The students are accusing the school administration and the state legislature of reneging on treaty agreements to get out of paying for tuitions of an increasing num­ber of Indian applicants to the college. "They (the school admini­stration) have used the Indian stu­dents for publicity and fund rais­ing, but now that it's costing them a little money, they are trying to get out of their legal responsi­bility, " said Eric LaRose, a Ute Indian student from Utah. 
One of the Indian student lead­ers said that the state of Colo­rado never really thought it would have to live up to its obligation to Indian people. To substantiate his charge, he pointed out a com­ment from the Durango Morning Daily Democrat published soon after the agreement was made in 1911. The article stated, "The federal act stipulates that Indians may be admitted to the school and receive instruction, but as there are no Indians within many miles of the reservation (Fort Lewis), this be­
comes  an  obligation  of  no  eonse­ 
quencc. ''  
LaRose  said  that  the  students  

would "attempt to work through the system. But we need support from tribes and from all Indian people. " Tribes and individuals can help by writing to the Admini­stration of Fort Lewis College. 

''Tax Evasion --had no Income!•• 
Library Exhibit Shows Contemporary Indians 
CHICAGO, ILL. -A pictori 
hibit on Indians in the Ame scene was shown in the main dor of the Chicago Public Li during February. 
The colorful and informativ hibit, mounted on placards for handling, is based on biographi Indians appearing in the new tion of Indians of Today and re pictures from the book A me Indian Statues, and one now in duction, American Indian marks. 
All three books are the wo Marion E. Gridley, publisher of Amerindian, who is well-kno Indians across the country. S the author of 17 books on In 
It is planned to make the e available to organizations, sc and libraries for a minimal ch It is the only exhibit of this n featuring the contemporary In 
Forrest Gerard Now On Senate Comnittee Staff 
WASHINGTON; D. C. -Forr Gerard (Blackfeet) has bee pointed to the professional s the Senate Committee on In and Insular Affairs it is anno by Senator Henry M. Jackson 
Gerard has been Director o Office of Indian Affairs for th partment of Health, Educatio Welfare since 1967. 
His appointment, accordin Senator Jackson, sets the stag the Interior Committee to lau far-reaching review of the I programs during the 92nd Con 
Mr. Gerard is a graduate o Montana State University. His government service includes signment as legislative assistan liaison officer in the Burea Indian Affairs. He is an air veteran of World War II. 
In 1966 he received the I Achievement Award. 
A Canadian First 
OTTAWA, ONT. -David G. eyes (Cree) has become the Indian ever to hold a regional torship with the Canadian D ment of Indian Affairs. 
INDI AN VO
8 



usual habit, Te-ne-tu, lovely young 
A. wa her h
·ht of a great Natchez warrior-untsman,
dau0 r I 

. . cct° the buckskin water bag from her ~arents 1 d \ alked swiftly toward the great river. It 
~ an h
d k and Te-ne-tu's mother, Me-ha-e, was u to prepare the evening meal. "Hurry daugh-
IOU .
le-ha-he called after the departmg Te-ne-tu, 
• th" . ht " 
father is hungry 1s ~1g . . 
'I c-n -tu quickened her stride and shortly d1sap­r d in the trees and deepening darkness. e-ne-tu never returned to the lodge of her mother 
nd father. The darkness swallowed her. , Where is Te-ne-tu and why is the cooking pot To-cah-wah questioned his wife Me-ha-he.
not long past the time for food?" 
went to the river for cooking water just un was hiding behind the ·hills to the west. not returned and I am very worried about 1e-ha-he's voice was full of worried thoughts answered her husband. "I am going to the riv r to aid her. Perhaps she has fallen, or maybe 
h talks with a young man." 
Do not alarm the village", To-cah-wah cautioned hi wife . "We shall look for her but be careful not to destroy any sign that might tell us what has h pp ned ." To-cah-wah's words frightened his wife, ut kno\ ing her husband to-be wise and careful, I -ha-he walked swiftly in the darkness with her hu band . They arrived at the river bank in total rkne s. It was no use to look for Te-ne-tu. Not n the keen huntsman's eyes of To-cah-wah could I n trate the dark. The two distraught parents l d the name of their daughter until they were n ble to speak. "She is not to be found this night", 
To-cah-wah told his weeping wife at long last. "She be found in the light of the next day. We will en~ries tonight and at first light, I will lead 
rebing party to find her." 
1 -_ha-he and To-cah-wah retired into their lodge ait out the long night. Sleep did not come to ~~a~-wah but worry and great fatigue overcame 
he and she fell into a troubled slumber. 

To,, rds · · 
. mormng, and just before the first flush 111 the east, To-cah-wah heard the chuckling 
can of h. b h .
is rot er, the loon. It was a httle
1 
~-Y for the loon's normal play and love period, ~f ca~-wah strained his ears to detect the mean­t e loon's calls. Suddenly, the softly re­
0. e can of his brother, Cho-lo-te (loon), ?,1ng to To-cah-wah. "Your beloved daughter 
e in the arms of her lover, a powerful hunter IL 1971 

awakened and hurried to the frisking happily in a nearby To-cah-wah was sure that arrival but to be sure, he 
(CONTINUED 
river. Cho-lo-te was inlet. Cho-lo-te knew of their uttered the quavering 
ON PAGE SEVENTEEN) 







(Oglala Sioux) 

iiA magnificent specimen of physical manhood, as n full of action as a tiger. II 
So Mahpiua Luta ("Red Cloud," from a meteor which turned the sky scarlet at the time of his birth), was described by famed Indian fighter Gen. George Crook, as the Oglala Sioux chief, then 44, led Indian opposition to Government proposals to construct forts along the Bozeman Trail in 1865. 
No white encroachment was more bitterly re­sented by the Teton, or Western Sioux, and the Cheyennes than this attempt to fortify the wild 
road across the western part of the continent through Wyoming to the newly discovered gold fields of Montana, for the Bozeman Trail cut across the best remaining buffalo grounds. 
The Indians had a powerful voice of opposition in Red Cloud. One of the principal chiefs of the Oglala Teton Sioux, he was a foremost warrior who had counted a large number of coups (sepa­rate deeds of bravery in battle), a natural leader who had become spokesman for his people through his own force of character. He was in his own right chief of the powerful Bad Face band of Oglalas, and influenced most of the other Oglala Sioux bands. 
Red Cloud was grimly determined to keep the Army out of Indian hunting grounds. With a party of Sioux and Cheyennes, he intercepted the first small detachment of troops sent out to begin constructions along the Bozeman Trail in the sum­mer of 1865, and kept them prisoner for more than 2 weeks. When commissioners were sent to treat with the Sioux that fall, Red Cloud refused to allow transactions to start, and himself boy­cotted the council. 
The following June, white negotiators again 
attempted to get Sioux and Cheyenne permission 
for passage of emigrants and construction of forts 
along the trail.. This time, Red Cloud was present 
as a leading representative for the Indians . great force and dignity, he repeated his to endanger the hunting grounds of his peop
le: Great Spirit had told him, he said, what happen to the Indians if the Bozeman Trail came a major route. But even while discussions were taking a strong force of troops had arrived and occupation of Wyoming's Powder River cou Upon learning this the furious Red Cloud his rifle, shouted a defiant message, and s 
The Army proceeded to carry out order fortify the trail. When Red Cloud's protests ignored, he organized his forces, threatened to any whites who ventured onto the trail, began a constant harrassment which was to for 2 years and become known as "Red War." The largest post on the trail, Fort Kearny, was kept under relentless seige, even a load of hay could be brought in from prairies except under strongly armed When Capt. William J. Fetterman, with 80 attempted to rescue a woodcutting party u attack near the fort in December 1866, Cloud 1s warriors lured them into ambush killcd c·,·e r.,· one. 
Although there were some white victories , Cloud and his followers resisted so effecti that again the Government attempted to negot The new meeting was called for November 1 Red Cloud's ultimatum was complete abandon of all posts and of all further attempt to the Montana road. He refused to sign-or be present-until the garrisons had actually withdrawn and he had seen the hated forts to the ground. 
Red Cloud's victory was complete. The 0 chief stands alone in the history of the Amer West as the chief who won a war with the U State.s. 



R d Cloud. Although dressed in full regalia, the Oglala Sioux warrior, aged and almost blind, had made his home on Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota for many years at the time this picture was made. Photo: Smithsonian Institution. 
signed the Fort Laramie Treaty, which the ast area known as the Great Sioux agreed to lay down his arms and Cloud Agency in Nebraska. He kept to live peacefully, but not without acceptance of reservation life brought scorn of Crazy Horse and other Oglala who continued to fight the whites. Red no active part in the Sioux hostilities 1 70's, although many of his followers, 
O\\n son, left the agency to join Sitting other Sioux warriors. , Red Cloud moved his people to Pine 
\' ncy, along with almost all other Ogla­here, his running feud with Agent McGilli­came legendary, primarily because of the
l) , .
1 sistent efforts to rob him of his pres­
tige and authority as chief of his people. While he advocated peace, Red Cloud was opposed to efforts to rush Indian acceptance of white men's ways, and was a persistent critic of the Federal Government. He left the house built for him by the Government on Pine Ridge to travel to Wash­ington on several occasions, and his views be­came known to newspaper readers throughout the country. 
A few years before his death, Red Cloud and his wife were formally baptized as Roman Catho­lics; he took the baptismal name "John," and she became "Mary." In 1909, having become feeble and totally blind, the old warrior died in his 
Pine  Ridge  home.  A  marker  locates  his  grave  
at  the  Holy  Rosary  Mission  near  Pine  Ridge  
Agency,  S.  Dak.  




VIEWPOINT: 
AMERICAN INDIAN TEENAGERS STUDY THEIR COUNTRY'S HISTORY, TOO, BUT SOMETIMES IT MUST SEEM A VERY STRANGE HISTORY INDEED 
by John Jerome One of education's most popular intelligence tests features a matching game. An automobile tire is shown, and primary-grade students are asked to match the tire with the means of transportation with which it goes: car, boat, train, or airplane. When the test is given in Alaskan fishing villages, many Indian students invariably match up the picture of the tire with the picture of a boat. According to the test instructions, this answer, of course, is "wrong." 
But these children live in villages where there are no roads, and land transportation is by foot, dogsled, or snowmobile. They've never seen cars. Many of their parents, however, own fishing boats, which use old automobile tires as shock-absorbing fenders to prevent damage to the boats when they are docked. These children know intimately and accurately from their own experience that tires go on boats. The "correct" answer just doesn't make sense. When the test question is marked wrong, they feel mystified, confused, more than a little hurt. The white man's school is a strange place. 
One popular social studies textbook in use a few years ago listed the Indians as "products" resulting from Columbus' discovery of the New World. Indians are often referred to as "savages" in the history books. What the Indian student might see as a sys­tematic destruction of his own race is often des­cribed in the white man's books as "conquering the frontier" and making the hostile New World "safe" for settlement and exploitation. When an Indian teen­ager comes upon such a view of his own people, he is not merely confused, he is insulted. And he may even be required to express such views himself on examination papers, for example, to indicate he has understood the lesson. In the face of such attitudes in the non-Indian world, it is of little surprise that Indian students sometimes "turn off'l' their interest in, and hunger for, education. There is no stimu­lation to learn when confusion and insult exist. 
Because of this built-in cultural bias, American 
Indian education has long provided a dismal pie 
But because of renewed public awareness-aware stimulated in large part by initiative from the In themselves-the prospects for meaningful change prom1srng. In fact, Indian education is one fastest developing facets of U.S. education. A special Senate subcommittee on Indian educ formed in 1967, is responsible for bringing situation into the light of day. Among other t the committee uncovered these facts: 
The average educational level for all In 
under federal superv1s10n is five school y 
Dropout rates for Indians are twice the na 
average. 
Only 18 percent of the students in federal 
dian schools go on to college; the national a: 
age is 50 percent. 
Only three percent of the Indian students 
enroll in college graduate; the national ave 
is 32 percent. 
Only one out of every 100 Indian college g 
ates will go on to receive a master's de 
Many of the problems are simply economi New Mexico, for example, some Indian students two miles to the bus every day and then must 50 miles to high school. The national averag expenditures for textbooks and supplies is $40 student, but in federal Indian schools only $1 available. Because of the attention focused b Senate subcommittee, federal policies are changed-slowly-to help solve the economic lems. Meanwhile, the Bureau of Indian Affai resolved to deal with the non-economic problem quickly as possible. 
One such effort is a determined push to see the content and method of teaching in Indian sc are "Indian-specific. " Government funds are made available to revise and redesign school rials so that they meet the specific needs and the specific desires of Indian students. Simult projects are being started to update many s 
1 2 
;F YOU HAD BEEN AN INDIAN IN 1~92, YOUR EXPERIENCE WOULD NOT HAVE 
BEE N THAT YOU WERE "DISCOVERED", PA LE SKINS HAPPENED TO ARRIVE -­KNOWL EDGE, BUT ALSO NEW DANGERS 
~ ent one was Project NECESSITIES, 
. t ne rec "al tud· 
u J ,c_v~ar program to prepare newh socid As i~s n J k. dergarten through 12t -gra e meri­
rams for m
• . and Eskimo schools. 
n Ii~dian EC ESSITIES (an acronym for the National Pr0J~ct C mmittee for Effective Social Science u ati~n °d Teaching of Indian and Eskimo Stu­
In trueti:; ~~ shop in Brigham City, Utah, at ~he n ta· School a boarding school for Indian 
t rn1oun in ' d" tu
I 
f om all over the southwest. In ian s ­d ntw r; hired as junior consultants, to work with nt dian and non-Indian professional staff to prepare n In materials. After a y_ear of pilot stu?Y and lopm nt work, the proJ ect was turned mto an . -owned private corporation, and moved to Al­l 1 n ue M where it is currently located. 
u ucrq , · · ' . . f
h orporation will contmue with the work o pro-c ducational materials for Indian schools. 
mphasis throughout the project is on an In­n \'i \\.-point. One early pilot study, for example, par d a unit on Columbus' "discovery" of A_meri­
If one uses his imagination to place himself the horeline, awaiting the arrival of other races m oth r lands, American history becomes a vastly 
r nt subject; for one thing, it doesn't "start" 
1 92. 
rojcct ECESSITIES' material is not entirely reti cal· some of it is plainly practical. For mpl , e ery member of the Sioux tribe, upon hin the age of 18, receives a cash grant from b l funds. In 1969 this amounted to approximately , 00 each. Tribal experience had shown that this n bonanza was not infrequently used in mark­1• unwise fashion; the tribal elders felt that Sioux un people could use a little practical experience 
money management, and asked Project NECES­t for help. Th result was a unit of study called "Practical 
• nomic : llocation of Resources," a rather heavy U for a course that used the Montgomery Ward il-order catalog as a textbook. Students began u inr the catalog simply as a "wish book," but ?r the unit was over, they were planning an n ir household and monthly budget for a family of and learning the intricacies of shipping charges, t rates, marketing techniques, advertising , the effect of supply vs. demand, in short practical realities of the consumer economic 
~ -The unit won approval from the Sioux tribal ttonal council, and is now a part of the regu­cour e of study for high-school-age Sioux. notber unit .. all
i ongm y was intended to direct r n swctents to actual Indian treaties as original­
ce docum t f ' 
licie en s or the study of governmental The educators-Indian and non-Indian­
the langu Of . .
had d. ff" age the treaties so confusmg that ult 1 ic~lty understanding it themselves. As ....-,.._~' a urut grew out of their research called 
BUT RATHER SOME STRANGE MEN WITH AND WITH THEM CAME NOT ONLY NEW 
"Fact and Opinion," which focuses on understanding and developing skills in communication. Much of the material in the unit is "real life" case studies, including that of an Indian youth who gets into trouble with boarding school authorities over the length of his hair. Students take roles as authorities, teachers, counselors, and other students, and dig deeply into such subjects as the formation of social customs, establishment of order, rules of evidence, methods of presentation, etc. The intent is not to formulate opinion, but to teach the skills that help separate fact from opinion, and that give sincerely held opinion full weight when opinion is called for. 
The Project NECESSITIES material is far from the final answer as far as removing cultural bias from Indian education is concerned, but it is an exciting beginning. Other similar projects can be expected to carry the work forward. Perhaps a larger problem is the recruitment of bright, aware, able teachers to adapt the new material to specific locales and tribal patterns. Teaching positions in Indian schools are not the "plums" that many sub­urban schools represent. The schools are often lo­cated in extreme isolation, in the midst of great poverty and serious shortages of what Americans have come to regard as the amenities of life. The problems of Indian education, for the person con­sidering teaching as a career, are in some ways similar to those of ghetto education, without the safety valve of a stimulating urban environment. Teaching in Indian schools is a job for the dedi­cated and totally committed. The material rewards are small-Bureau of Indian Affairs salaries are mid-range, teaching conditions often primitive-but the intangible rewards are immense. 
For decades, our government' s policy toward the American Indian has been one of benign external administration. The government has said it would provide for the Indians-but few would now deny that it has done so poorly, inadequately, belatedly. Conditions on the reservations prove that this is so, and the non-reservation Indian, who has entered the non-Indian world, has fared little better. Now Indian leaders are mounting a drive for self-determination. Indians want to control their own affairs, live their own lives. To help them achieve this, they need more Indian leaders-stronger, better educated In­dian leaders. Improving Indian education is a first step upward, one in which the non-Indian can be of help. To do so is to help an almost forgotten people take their rightful place in modern America. 
Ed.Note: The above article was reprinted through the courtesy of 'American Youth' a General Motors publication for new young drivers.. 
1 3 
THE CONQUEST Of ABORIGINA L LANDS: PART 

GENERAL ARTHUR ST , CLAIR COMMANDED THE 
U.S. ARMY IN THE GREATEST DEFEAT IN THE HISTORY OF THE AMERICAN MILITARY. 




The Ohio Valley Exploitation 

he defeat of the Six Nations, and the brief 
years of American Confederacy following the revolution of 1775, fully ended the power of the Iroquois Confederacy. The Iroquois were perhaps the' first Indian tribes to be set upon a reser­vation, most definite, their lands were opened to white settlement. Land grants within the bound­aries of the Confederacy were given to soldiers of the Continental Army, other lands within the same boundaries were massed into land Compa­nies and sold to support the cost of the Ameri­can Revolution. The Indian problem, Indian forced removal, and a century of dishonor on the part of the then New Federation, had definitely begun. The epoch of American Confederacy lasted long 
1 4 
enough to establish state control (States' Ri 
over the rights of Eastern Indian Tribes , par larly those Indians whose tribal lands we the boundaries of the thirteen "or iginal" settlements. Indians, whose tribal lands we the states joining the Union after the epoc American Confederation, were placed under control of a new political movement heade John Marshall-The Federal Gover nment. power had progressed from colonialism to federation, to Federation; while Indian power shifted from a Confederation of the Ir oquo· the east, to a coalition of Indian tribes the Miami and Wabash Rivers in the Ohio V 
In 1790, when it appeared that a war be 
INDIAN VO 
d Spain might evolv~, n 1and and i·cted to send a m1­
. ton ec M. .
hint'> ource the 1ss1s­
. the s ' .
11 to ·essions rn that area 
i. rrans!~ished. The militia uld b P Ft Washington (Cin­b r d adt as· placed under the 
f an w . . G
1nn 1 f Brevet Brigadier en­nll11 nc\;h Harmar, an officer of r Jo rl\'aniana during the revo­nn rf hat is all that can be 11 • • ct·t· he drank ex-
to h1 ere 1 ' 
. , ould not maintain self 
1 l , c d · · 1 · and 
. group 1sc1p me, 11 ·ol ~l~erience or knowledge of 
11 • 
·ican Indians.0 ·i·ti·a was entirely inade­
h nu 1 
. It was opposed by a _loo~e O\\ erful coalition of Miamis hio and Indiana; the Shaw­. th fierce Potawatomis from . and the country around
IIl111 i h. 
r Lak Iichigan; and the C 1p­the eastern side of
h 0111 Hur 11 and northern Michigan. oalition had a leader who ui rior to Harmar in all t • The Indian leader, a 0 the Miami tribe, had the lli n of Joseph Brant, the rmination of Pontiac, and he military strategist of sole ·n tion. He was known among J opl as MICHIKINIKWA, and , •hites as LITTLE TURTLE. 
mar t out into Indian coun­, ptember 26, 1790. His ,, a composed of 1, 133 u m nted by an additional n of the first Infantry Regi­nt, and a mounted company of li ht cannon. The pack train ollowed behind was largely 
rllc,n,•r,.... niz.ed and even included a ot ·attle. The inexperienced mo ed his militia in a formation through Indian and against a mobile In-
others were wounded. The chief permitted the general to retreat without defeat, again deluding. The general was obtuse enough to claim the battle as a victory! However, the new Army of the United States had taken a severe beating. There was a court of inquiry, and Har­mar was asked to resign his com­mission. A new unit, the 2nd In­fantry was authorized by Congress; 
a  militia  was  drafted.  The  new  
Army  was now  larger,  but  defi­ 
nitely  not  wiser!  

Placed in the new command was Harmar's superior, General Arthur St. Clair. The general had fought well at Ticonderoga, Trenton, and Princeton. However, in 1791, the general was fifty-five and suffering from gout, and to the advantage of the Indian, he suffered from an ignorance of Indian Warfare. The general was re-commissioned to his wartime rank of Maj or Gen­eral, and as such was the new Army's ranking officer. 
St. Clair carried out his plan with truly formidable ineptitude. His planning was disorganized; his logic absurd. The troops were without rations or pay. He often neglected reconnaissance. His mi­litia included 600 regulars, 800 militiamen, enlisted for six months from Maryland, Massachusetts, and Pennsylvania. In addition, were 600 frontiersmen from Kentucky. Trailing in the rear were 200 wives and other ladies ambiguously known as laundresses . If anything, the militia should have been the cleanest clothed militia ever to march on the continent! Some of them could march and shoot as well as the men they pursued; but they were a sorry addition to an army about to. meet an enemy as professional as the military stra­tegist, Little Turtle. 
On October 3, 1791, St. Clair marched his forces out of Fort Washington, and headed for the Miami village 135 miles away, north by northwest. By November 3rd he had advanced some 100 miles northward from Cincinnati, and was encamped for the night at the upper part of the Wabash River. The next day, just before dawn, a force of over 1,000 war­riors under the leadership of chief Little Turtle, which had surrounded the camp during the night, attacked the army. The battle lasted more than three hours. The Indians were well outnumbered, but the militia was far inferior militarily. Untrained, low in morale, and led by a general who was suffering from rheumatism, asthma, and ''colic'' as well as ignorance of Indian warfare, only 580 troops reached safety. It was a decisive victory for the Indian chief. The general who fought so well during the American Revolution, gave the new Nation its worst defeat ever in the annals of history on Indian Wars! Braddock lost 725 of his 1,200 men to Pontiac; St. Clair lost 900 of his 1,400 men to Little Turtle! By comparison, Custer's later defeat at the Little Big Horn would be mild, with only 211 of his 7th Cavalry annihilated. To Michikinikwa, known in history as Little Turtle, must go the eagle feather award for rendering the U.S. Army its greatest defeat in Indian War History! 

It was a humiliating defeat for the new Army, and for the new Federation an inquiry was de­manded. The general could not be brought before a military court, for he outranked every officer in the new Army. The House of Representatives conducted the in­vestigation. After repeated hear­ings, the general was cleared and allowed to resign. 
The defeat was too public to be pushed into obscurity. The new Federation had been defeated, not by a Confederation of powerful Indians, but by a coalition of fewly numbered Indian tribes along the Miami and Wabash Rivers. Alarmed and outraged at the defeat of St. Clair, Congress doubled the author­ized strength of the Army. Three additional regiments, two of which were infantry, were added to the regular Army, and were to be "discharged as soon as the United States shall be at peace with the Indian tribes." Anthony Wayne was appointed Major General to suc­ceed St. Chir, and the whole of the U.S . . '\rrny was reorganized! Free of wars with the Nations of Europe, and with its . ..\rmy newly reorganized, the nc\v federation 
was  able  1 ()  train  its  .=\ rm,v,  a.ncl  
prm<IC'l' ,  -~c.;  \\(' 11  as  plunder,  the  
Americ:rn,  !nd1 :-1 11  

(TO BE CONTINUED) 
1 5 
Indians Fight Annexation 
PALM SPRINGS, CALIF.: A class action suit has been filed by the Agua Caliente Indian tribe to void the annexation of 32,000 acres by the city of Palm Springs and its five councilmen. 
The land in contention was held in trust for the Agua Caliente tribe by the Federal government. The city of Palm Springs has zoned and regulated use of the land with­out the approval of the tribe or the government. 
Chief Dan George Award Winner 
The former chief of Briiish Co­
lumbia's Tse-lal-watt tribe, Chief 
Dan George's magnificent perfor­
mance as the noble non-savage in 
Arthur Penn's LITTLE BIG MAN 
has made him the most astonish­
ingly successful new actor in Hol­
lywood. Much of the film's valid­
ity rests on his authentic and 
serene presence as Old Lodge 
Skins. 
His remarkable performance has already won him the New York Film Critics' award for Best Sup­porting Actor of 1970 and made him an early favorite in the up­coming Oscar campaign. 
A few years ago one of his sons, who was in the production at the time, landed him a role as 
Chief Dan George: B11i]1ling morale 1 6 
a tribal elder in a Canadian Broad­casting Corporation series, Cari­bou Country. His first film was a Walt Disney western entitled Smith! , with Glenn Ford. 
In it he delivered the eloquent speech, given in 1877 by the ven­erable Nez Perce chief, Joseph with only one hitch: Dan Georg~ speaks Squamish, not Nez Perce. They made do with Squamish. 
When offered the important role of Old Lodge Skins opposite actor Dustin Hoffman, Chief George was not sure he could handle the part. "There was so much dialogue," he said. "And the idea of going from almost no experience right into a big movie frightened me. But, Phil Keatly, a director and friend, told me, 'There's nobody in Canada 
who  can  play  that  part  as  well  as  
you.'  So  I  took  it."  
During  his  28  years  as  a  long­ 

shoreman on the docks in Van­couver, he said he had seen a lot of movies. "I didn't like the cow­boy-Indian movies a bit," he re­calls. For one thing, I watched those white men playing the parts of Indians and it always looked so phony to me. I wanted to show that an Indian, if he had talent could play an Indian better than ~ white simply because he was play­
ing his own nationality. " 
Chief George proved his point and then some, turning in a per­formance that has won him the New York Film Critics' and the National Society of Film Critics' awards for Best Supporting Actor and promises at least an Academy Award nomination. 
Through his work in "Little Big Man", Chief Dan George hopes to help remake the Indian image in the eyes of the white audience. "Movies always showed the Indians as warlike, and in reality we are a peaceful people," he says. "In 'Little Big Man' it's different. You can see that Custer really got what he deserved." 
The Chief's commitment goes beyond settling scores. He wants to play parts that will, as he puts it, "build up Indian morale. You will be waiting in a store to buy something or to pay, and the sales­girls will, serve the white custo­mers first and leave you standing there," he says. "My wife got so mad once she just threw the things at the salesgirl and walked out. I'm only going to take roles that will bring acceptance of the Indian. There's no room for any kind of bad will. We're all human beings on this earth." 

To-cah-wah and Me-ha-he hurried to the base of the huge tree to find a large bundle. "Woman", To-cah-wah observed smiling, "the warrior that has taken our daughter is a northern man and a mighty
Th £' Cold, Hard Facts huntsman. Look at those furs that he has left for 
o F 1 9 7 0 us. Buffalo robes, wolf pelts., fox, linx, wildcat, 
ou were an Indian... 

~ iour 
life span would be 42 1 _ years 21 years shorter
1 
to -1:-1 ' 1 ·t·
than that of your fel ow c1 1­
:_:~~;ur income would be $1,_ 500, ~ _ per cent below the national 1 ·> . ere and $1 000 lower than
averao, ' . the a\·erage black family; _ You would have, on the aver-five years of schooling,
,L,..,(;, b'l'h f 
. d your proba 1 1../ o unem­
,1n te t·
loyment would be n imes ~he-national average; -The mortality rate of your child during the first year of life would be twice that of a ,., hite baby: -The suicide rate of your teenager would be 100 times that of whites; --The odds would be 2-to-1 that your child would never finish high school and 100-to-1 that he would not graduate from college: 
E -ET-HOV/ 
r. 'ci f r0m page 9) 
Cho-lo-te and was answered im­cl · by his feathered brother. In greatest de­ho-lo-te called, dove beneath the surface of tcr and popped up again to utter his happy Tim and time again Cho-lo-te rippled his 1"' lo his brother. "Do not fear for Tc-nc-tu's l mv brother, she is safe :rnd quite happy. in tlw p:t-\\ :1 C'luslcring :!long lh(' ri\·cr bank. 
r \ ou \\ i 11 l"i nd t hl' l'\. id('llC<' _vou scc'k " 
II .iring and understanding his friend and brother, · h-,\ ah smiled happily and grasping his wife's , he hurried to the cluster of pa-wa. Sure h, there in the river mud and rushes was the I mark of a birchbark canoe. A canoe had n ra.ftily beached there in the protection of the 
-wa. 
h, t do it mean Cho-lo-te?" Me-ha-he questioned hu band "What has happened to our daughter?" -~ -h ' oice was beginning to quiver noticeably questioned her husband and he hastened to her that Te-ne-tu was safe. "Her lover has her to his home. Cho-lo-te saw it happen _ h told. me. Do not disturb the po-wa", To­cautioned his wife. "See there? There are r ~o-, a tails broken to point toward the high 
ank. and a great tree. " 
cougar, coon beaver, and muskrat. This is a gift fitting a princess of any tribe. See how deep and thick the fur is on each pelt. The man must live on the border between prairie and woodlands. He has both woodland and prairie animals in his gift to the parents of his new wife. Come woman, I must catch this man and learn to know him. We must know where our daughter is to live and if all the things I see here are true. 11 
Selecting a small and swift canoe, To-cah-wah and Me-ha-he packed sleeping robes, food and a few spartan necessities. By bird singing time the same morning, the two were swiftly progressing upstream in search of their daughter. 
The story of the trip up the mighty father-of­waters river is a long and fascinating story in it­self, as told by Crow wing, the Natchez medicine woman. If you want the details, you will have to wait until the moon is again full and warm. I will tell you this much, however. To-cah-wah and Me­ha-he did catch up with their daughter Te-ne..:.tu and her warrior husband Black Hawk after three days of hard travel. 
On the morning of the third day of their search, To-cah-wah and Me-ha-he rounded a sharp bend in the river, and there before them was a beautiful island. Standing arm in arm on the downstream tip of the island were Te-ne-tu and Black Hawk. They were waving and calling to To-cah-wah and Me-ha-he to land and rejoice, for surely there was a union consummated and blessed by the mother earth. 
The proud parents joined their daughter and her husband and for three days sat and rejoiced with them. The entire party of mother, father, daugh­ter, and husband departed on the morning of the fourth day and proceeded to the c~mp of Black Hawk. There they were received and loved by the mighty Iowa Indians and there in due time the future leader and wonderful chief of the Iowa was born. 
Don't always believe the bad stories you hear. Here is one of intertribal friendship and love. 
WITHOUT RESERVATION. 

" I don't know about rain, but I get a lot of tourists!" 
1 7 
KEEP ALASKA OFF LIMITS 
(Continued from page two) 
that contain more oil than all the now known oil reserves in the world, including those in Alaska. We recommend that the oil com­panies depletion allowances be withheld and placed in a fund to be spent on basic re­sear.ch for the perfection of the process of hydrogen conversion to energy. 
As far as the development of Alaska is concerned, we would point out to you what development in the name of progress has done to the ecology of the continental United States. 
How much better for this country and the generations that follow to make haste slowly in the exploitation and development of this great unspoiled land. Leave this land in trust in the care of those who have proved over thousands of years that they do not and will not desecrate the natural environment of the land on which they live-which is theirs. 
Your elected officials in Washington, D. C. will be influenced by a letter from you. Tell them you want the Alaskan Native Americans to receive a just settlement of their valid moral and legal land rights. 

ECOLOGICAL OBJECTIONS 
TO ALASKA PIPELINE SHUSHED The Interior Department's approval of the controversial 800-mile Alaskan pipe­line was based not on facts but on oil industry propaganda. So charge some of the department's top ecologists, whose views not only have been ignored but suppressed. They were firmly muzzled when Interior gave its blessing Jan. 13 to the construction of a hot-oil pipeline across Alaska's frozen wilderness. The need for oil, states the official announcement, outweighed the risk to the environment. But the dissenting ecologists, in a secret 38-page report, contended that the oil interests were put ahead of the national interest. "The inevitable chronic damages and possible catastrophic damages to land and marine resources" have been all but ignored by the department in its haste to satisfy "the country's most favored and monopolistic industry," charges the critique. The above article is from Jack Anderson's syndicated column, 'The Merry-Go-Round'. 
1 8 
NATIVE ALASKANS' LAND RIGHT 
(Cont i nued from page two ) 
court injunction against the Secretary of Inte forbidding him to grant a right-of-way for the struction of the pipeline across their lands. A. a landmark case, argued by attorneys for the sociation on American Indian Affairs and the v· of Nenana, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Circuit re~ffirmed that traditional Native use occupancy create valid legal land rights and lands subject to Native use and occupancy are empted by the Statehood Act from expropria The U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear the of Alaska's appeal. 
Proponents of the pipeline are no longer eage test the rights of the Natives in court. Al newly-elected Governor, William A. Egan, s "We can get a settlement (of Native claims) year, but if this problem gets to the courts, pr cally all major developments could be held u to 15 years. " 
The courts can protect .Native rights, but cannot grant Natives title to their land. Only gress can do that. 
The first important step toward Congressional tlement was taken last July by the U.S. Se The Senate passed legislation (S. 1830) that grant Alaska's 60,000 Indians, Eskimos, and title to 10 million acres of land-less than 3 cent of the lands to which they have valid claim. In return for extinguishing their clai the rest of Alaska's 375 million acres, the S bill offered the Natives cash compensation amo to $1 billion in payments deferred over many y 
Mr. Emil Notti, then President of the sta Alaska Federation of Natives, condemned the million-acre Senate land provision stating, "To the Alaska Natives an adequate land base of at 40 million acres will contribute to their depend to the disintegration of their communities, the erosion of their cultures. To strip the Natives of-their land will destroy their tradi self-sufficiency, and it is certain to create them bitterness toward other Alaskans and a distrust of our institutions and our laws." 
The House of Representatives failed to act Native claims settlement bill last year. the House Subcommittee on Indian Affairs last tember reportedly agreed in closed sessions pr ovision that would grant the Natives title million acres of land. 
The new Congress has a priceless opportuni settle with justice and humanity the land righ Alaska's Native citizens. 
Reprinted through th e co urt esy o f th 'New s lette r' of t he Associa t ion of th American Indian Affai r s, In co rp o ra ted 



a short story 



Easv Monev!
PICKLED BEAVER TAIL 
READ
'ZC I 

pkg. acti e dry yeast up ,, arm water . up melted shortening 
up molasses po ns salt ornmeal up hot water to 5 cups sifted flour. 
yeast in warm water. 
tea ur salt, cornmeal, short­and molasses into bowl. hot , ater and stir until 
d. tir in 2 cups flour to a thick batter and beat batter is elastic, about 100 tr k Add yeast and stir in _-1 '2 ups flour. With floured fingers, work in nough additional flour to make doucrh that does not stick to th " bands. Turn dough onto a ur d board and knead about 
1 o trok s. Shape dough into a ,all and place in greased bowl. 'prcad with shortening, cover, 1•t ri in warm place until ubl d in bulk (about 1-1/2 h ur ). Punch down and shape int a round loaf about 2 inches thick. Place on greased sheet, co,· r , and let rise until puffed bout 1 hour). Prick full of ho! with an icepick. Bake at d crrees for 35 to 40 min.

s 1 large loaf. 
u ·b may be cut in half and d into 2 loaves about one in h thick. Bake at 400 degrees 
bout :..,~ minutes. 
(Chippewa) 
Cut tail from body. Singe over open flame until outer skin curls. Peel. Soak tail in salt water 2 to 3 hours. Boil in salted water until tender. 
Marinate in vinegar, chill, use as needed. 
ROAST QUAIL 
CHOCTAW STYLE 
Freshly killed plump quail. 
Gut quail leaving feathers on. Salt inside. Wrap bird in wet red clay, making a round ball. Roast in ashes and coals from hickory wood fire. Peel off clay (feathers come with it). Most wonderful eating. 
INDIAN GREENS 
Mix dandelion greens , lambs quarters, and wild mustard in amounts to suit yourself. 
Boil a piece of salt pork in water enough to cover for about one hour. 
,\dd greens and cook until 
lender. 
CHIPPEWA CORN-A-BOOB 
Heat 1 can cream style corn with about 2 tablespoons bacon grease. Drop walnut-size dump­lings in and cook until done. 
SUBSCR IPTI ON DONATION FORM 
Enclosed ism b · ·
Y su scr1p t1on donation of Five ~o ll ar s ($5.00 ). Ple ase mai l the next twelve issues o f ''Indian Voic e'' to: 
---------ST ATE ________ /, I \l ____ 

~~tJ,m!IUM}~ tVfJH3€fff~f> 
~
P. O. BOX 2033 SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 

ARCHIE BLACKSMITH 
( 5 I O lJ X ) 
It all happened in a bus station in one of the major cities of these United States. 
As the story goes, there was a black man and a red man waiting for a bus to their home desti­nations. 
As they waited they began dis­cussing the weather and baseball. After a couple of trips to the bar in the bus station, they became very very good friends. 
They talked, waited and watched the people hurrying here and there boarding buses, saying good-bys: and greeting friends. 
As they sat, a young blonde girl ?ame in, walked over to a weigh­mg machine, put in a nickel re­ceived a card, read it, toss~d it down, and walked out with a smile. The two travelers wondered what made her smile, so they picked up the card and read, "You are white, you weigh 108 lbs., and you should be in the movies!" The card went on and said, "If I am wrong, I will give you $10. 00." 
The idea of making $10. 00 started wheels turning. The Indian got on the machine, put in his coin, and received this card, "You are Red, you weigh 180 lbs., and you are about to take a trip.'' "I will give you $10. 00 if I'm wrong." The Indian was astounded. The Black man did the same thing and the card read, "You are Black, you weigh 192 lbs., and you are about to take a trip." "If I'm wrong I will give you $10. 00." ' 
By this time, the $10. 00 was getting bigger and bigger. The Black man and Indian went to the bar and came up with the answer. There was a man shining shoes, so the Indian bought a can of black shoe polish. The Indian put the shoe polish all over his face and headed back to the machine. He placed the nickel in and received the following card, "You still weigh 180 lbs., you are still Indian, and you and your Black friend have fooled around and just missed your bus!'' 

1 9 



~,b, ~,b,
INOIAN EVENTS 

APRIL 1971 
l --Tutoring, 4-7 p. m. , San Francisco Indian Center (SPIC) Art clas ses, 7-9 p. m., SFIC Ballet, 7-9 p. m., SFIC 
2 --Tutoring, 4-7 p. m. , SFIC · CSay Ar ea Pic nic and PowWcJw, Friendship ho. , 
, Oakland Ballet 7-9 p. m., SPIC 
3 --San Francisco Powwow, SFIC 
5 --Tutoring , 4-7 p. m., SPIC Art clas ses, 7-9 p. m. , SFIC 
6 --Council meeting, 7:30, SFIC Tutoring, 4-7 p. m. , SFIC Art classes, 7-9 p. m. , SFIC 
7 --Tutoring, 4-7 p. m., SFIC Art classes, 7-9 p. m., SFIC 
8 --Tutoring, 4-7 p. m. , SFIC Art cl asses, 7-9 p. m. , SFIC Ballet, 7-9 p. m., SFIC 
9 --Tutoring, 4-7 p. m., SFIC Ballet, 7-9 p. m., SFIC 
10 --American Indian Council PowWow, Saratoga Sioux Powwow, Silver Creek High School, S. J. 
12 --Tutoring, 4-7 p. m. , SFIC Art classes, 7-9 p. m. , SFIC 
13 --Day Care meeting, 7: 30, SFIC Tutoring, 4-7 p. m., SFIC Art classes 7-9 p. m., SFIC 
14 --Tutoring, 4-7 p. m. , SFIC Art classes, 7-9 p. m., SFIC 
15 --Tutoring 4-7 p. m. SFIC Art classes 7-9 p. m. , SPIC Balle t, 7-9 p. m. SFIC 
l G --Tutoring 4-7 p. m. SFIC Balle t 7-9 p. m. SFIC 
17 --Oakland PowWow, YMCA 45th Ave., Oakland 
19 --Tutoring 4-7 p. m. SFIC Art classes 7-9 p. m. , SFIC 
20 --Council meeting, 7: 30 
p. m, , SFIC Tutoring 4-7 p. m. SFIC Art classes 7-9 p. m., SFIC 
21 --BANAC , 340 -13th St., Oakland, 7: 30 Tutoring 4-7 p. m. SFIC Art classes 7-9 p. m., SFIC 
22 --Tutoring 4-7 p. m. SFIC Art classes 7-9 p. rn., . Ballet 7-9 p. m . SFIC 
23 --Tutoring 4-7 p. m. SFIC Art clas ses 7-9 p. m., SFIC 
Ballet 7-9 p. m. SFIC 
24 --AI Powwow Lee Mathson School San Jose 
2G --Tutoring 4-7 p. m. SFIC Art classes 7-9 p. m. , SFIC 
27 --Day Care meeting, 7: 30 SFIC Tutoring 4-7 p. m. SFIC Art classes 7-9 p. m. , SFIC 
28 --Tutoring 4-7 p, 111, SFIC Art classes 7-9 p. m. SFIC 
29 --Tutoring 4-7 p. m, SFIC Art classes 7-9 p. m . , SFIC Ballet 7-9 p. 111, SFIC 
30 --Tutoring 4-7 p, m. SFIC Art classes 7-9 p. 111 . , SFIC 

-:rtifJU~J-~H~ V-6HKG!!E-~<> 
v~ P.O . BOX 2033 (Li\­
~ SANTA C L.ARA, CAL IF . 9505 1 ~ 
Return Requested 




