The native red man of the Am­
erican forest and plain has been 
a favorite character of story and 
fiction fqr years. He has been 
painted in all colors and light, in 
all the varying traits of the many­
sided white man, or, rather, as 
white man seemed to see him 
through the prejudiced and bigoted 
glasses of white man's conceit . 
It may be laid down as a gen­
eral law that primitive man, com­
ing in contact with white man's 
civilization, absorbs all its vices 
and none of its virtues, and, as 
a result, a primitive race is 
doomed to extinction. This law 
does not hold true in the case of 
the Indian. If the history of wrong 
and oppression could be lifted from 
the shoulder of the Indian, and 
kindness, justice and humanity sub­
stituted, who is pr ophet enough to 
tell the place that he would be 
occupying· today in Caucasian civi­
lization ? 
The history of white man's treat­ment of ·the Indian from 1608 to the present is a very dark and bloody record, a record of in­justice, oppression, deceit, cruelty and utter disregard for the rights and liberties of the true native of the forest and plain. 
The Indian has always been a guileless victim; he can't under­stand his white brother's cease­less and endless desire for gain, for the piling up of possessions. The merciless tyrant of the white man's greed has caused him (the Indian) endless suffering and moun­tain high injustice. 
If the best element of our civi­lization paved the way for its march, the story would be far different . By the time this better element reaches the scene of action, the mischief has been done; and it takes several generations of de­voted men and an awful sacrifice of primitive men before the tide is turned for the better. 
When the Indians were finally herded on reservations (the Govern­ment always picking the poorest and most worthless land it could find to transform into a reservation, then turning the Indian loose , tell­ing him to make a living and keep 
within bounds), men were appointed over them that understood the In­dian character as much as an Ainu understands Christianity. Political "pull" and favoritism, not merit, and a thorough knowledge of Indian character secured lucrative po­sitions for these gentlemen as agents; where on the one hand the agent could fleece the Indian and on the other hand the Government. The records of the mistakes and the blunders made, sometimes ig­norantly and sometimes wilfupy, is certainly a very dark blotch upon American history's page . Did it end with blunders and mistakes? No. Who can tell the numberless boys in uniform who. v\l_ere sacri­ficed while trying to rectify the blunders of agents on the reser­vations and the still more ignor­ant but pompous and girth-bound officials at Washington? 
Who can ever relate the suffer­
ing and the hardships of the. Indian 
as he was bent to the will of the 
white man. 
if we stop to think and weigh the evidence of real history (not school book history) shall we be amazed that the Indian tried to wring tardy justice from the blind goddess by taking a few white scalps? Are we to wonder that the naturally bright and intelligent red man is backward and tardy in white man's civilization? 
Written by 
J . 0 . Kinnaman, A. M. December , 1910 
In the sixty years since the above article was written, the 277, 000 American Indians who then lived at a substandard level within the bounds of these United States has pyramided to over 600, 000­with the vast majority still living at a substandard level. The white man's enforced guidance over our destinies has been a failur e . 
But let us take heart. We are not the Vanishing Americans and as our white brother has failed us so has he failed himself. These failures are leading more of our white brothers to realize that his own well-being is directly related to the well-being of his fellow-rn 
and that the Indian's oneness nature and quest for vision be a teacher of all. He (the w man) is beginning to see that Indian sings the song of the fore of the birds, and of our soul that the Indian is of America that he is America. 

San Jose Core 
Team Goes To D. 
SAN JOSE, CALIF. : The Jose Indian Center CORE-TE 
made a trip to Sacramento January 8, 1971 for the purp of securing a definite appointm from Mr. Ernie Stevens for: a to Washington, D. C. , so that gotiations plans could be made the TEAM in their efforts in g ting the contracts now being-..hand by the local BIA office. '> 
Since the occasion was ·'the ann meetings conducted by the IT the TEAM also sought the supp of ITCC in their Washington effor Both of these goals were acco plished on that week end. . 
Words cannot express the tha and gratitude in our hearts to the people that make up the COR TEAM. I have found this coalit' body of people a selfless, and de cated group of people, whose· goa aims and purposes are tq HE better situations, circumstanc conditions and environs, so Indian relocatees might have home away from home as a b ginning in their quest of becomi self-determination individuals in urban society. 
The CORE-TEAM leaves San J o on January 31st for Washington negotiate this contract. 

"He's not a trapper---But, you might call him a sw i nge r" ! 
INDIAN VOi 


.IND1AN CENTER LI BRA r 
President-Returns Land To Pueblos -Then Vetoes Indian Funds Bill 
In necember, President Nixon signed a bill which would return Blue Lake and 48, 000 acres of land to the Taos Pueblo Indians of New Mexico, then on the fol­lowing day he vetoed a bill which included $80· million for Indian 
Manpower Training. When Presi­dent Nixon signed the land bill, he commented that there would be a new "direction" in Indian Affairs 
'INDIAN VOICE', the a 11 Indian monthly magazine, is published by the Native American Publi­shing Company, a non profit organization, to prese nt an 
authentic view of the American Indian history, culture and ~eritage. It will endeavor to express the hopes, fears and aspirations of those who are the true Native Americans. 
Editor 
FERN WILLIAMS ( Sioux) 
PH:246-1442 
Associate Editor 
RUDY CASAZZA (Seneca) 
Associate Editor 
SMOKEY SILENT FOX (Sioux) 
Associate Editor 
ARCHIE BLACKSMITH ( Sioux) 
Secretary 
MRS.CECIL BRONCO (Cheyenne) 
Treasurer 
DONNA FOLVEN (Sioux) 
Illustrator 
ARTHUR MILLARD (Quechan) 
Circulation Mgr. 
CAROLE STUBBS (Sioux) 
Refaders comments in the form 0 let t
s .. ers or articles are
1
o ic1ted and 1 Pl
mail . we come• ease p O your articles to Editor, c· :fBox _ 2033, Sant a Clara,
1
a l orn1a 95051. 

l 
Charles Trimble, Sioux, was ap­
Subscription $5.00 Yearly 
pointed the first Director of the Association. The Indian Press Association is The photo on this months cover pledged to .serve all Indian people
a: fro_m a painting by Bill 
and recogmzes no national bound­
Plo~ning courtesy of the 
ains Ind i an Museum. aries in so far as membership is concerned. 
"in which there will be more of an attitude of co-operation rather than paternalism, one of self­determination and one of mutual respect. " This plan was to give the Taos Pueblo use of the land but not the title. Blue Lake and surrounding areas were taken 64 years ago from them and made a part of a national forest. The area is considered sacred by the Taos Pueblo and the bill provided it would be forever maintained as a wilderness. 
When President Nixon vetoed the Employment and Manpower Act, he reportedly objected to the pro­visions that set up public -service jobs created by the federal govern­ment. When the act was killed, the section on Indian manpower training also went down the drain. Before it was vetoed, Senator Ed­ward Kennedy had hailed the act as the most far-reaching legislation for American Indians of the 91st Congress. If approved, the bill would have provided two significant principles: 1. Federal government will continue to deal directly with Indians. It will administer Indian programs directly and will not abandon its special relationship to Indians by going exclusively through states. 2. A specific allocation of funds, based on a proportion of the total appropriation for federal manpower programs, is set aside and earmarked for Indian projects. 
Trimble Named First Indian Press Director 
Formation of the fodian Press Association by Indian journalists who are all editors of Indian news­papers and magazines was accom­plished at their third meeting, which was held in the American Indian Historical Society at 1451 Masonic Ave. , San Francisco. 

Quirino Romero, Taos Pueblo Tribal Governor, President Nixon, and Paul B.e r n a I , T r i b a I S e c r e t a r y , c o n f e r Prior to s i gn in g of the I and bi I I • 
Chemehuevi Claim Award Funds To Be Distributed 
BIA, PHOENIX, ARIZ.: An Act of Congress on September 25 1970 authorized the distribution of fund~ derived from a judgment awarded by the Indian Claims Commission to the Chemehuevi Tribe qf Indians. Regulations governing the prepa-­ration of rolls for the payment of these funds have been published in the Federal Register. 
Individuals who file applications by June 25, 1~71, and establish they meet the following require­ments will be enrolled to share in the distribution of the judgment funds: they were born on or before and living on September 25, 1970· they are lineal descendants of mem~ bers of the Chemehuevi Tribe as it existed in 1860; or their name or the name of a lineal ancestor appears as a Chemehuevi Indian on any available census roll or other record or evidence accept­able to the Secretary of the In­terior. 
Instructions will be supplied with appl~cation forms which may be obtamed from the Superintendent Colorado River Agency Parker' Arizona 85344 or the Area Di~ rector, Phoenix Area Office, 124 West Thomas Road, Box 7007, Phoenix, Arizona 85011. Com­pleted applications must be filed with the Area Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Phoenix, Arizona and must be postmarked no later than June 25, 1971. 

c,(@i-l@)., c.{@M©,., c,(@111©,., c,(@M©,., e.c@M©,., 

Sister Awarded Grant For Indian Biography 
BISMARCK, N. D. : Recently a $10,000 grant was awarded to Sister Mary Ione Hilger of Annun­ciation Priory, Bismarck, North Dakota to write the biography of Dr. Charles Alexander Eastman, a Sioux from S. D. Dr. Eastman was an eminent spokesman for his race, sought to bring about a bet­ter understanding between the races and to help preserve the best in Indian culture. He wrote nine books, some translated into French, German, Danish and Russian. He earned an M. D. degree with honors at the Boston University and was appointed by Presidents Theodore Roosevelt and Calvin Coolidge as liaison between the American Indian and the United States. He was honored by awards in the U. S. and abroad. Dr. Eastman lectured at the Univer­sities of Oxford, Cambridge and Liverpool, England, _and was se­lected for Honorary Membership of the National Liberal Club of London. 
Regarding her proposal seeking the grant, she was told the sig­nificance of her proposed work in these words, "The outstanding achievements of Dr. Eastman and his highly developed personality are greatly significant in showing what can be done by giving proper op­portunities and guidance." "Dr. Eastman successfully bridged two cultures affecting a way of life now gone and yet not exterminated by forces manipulated by white Americans. Depicting this progres­sive influence and his paternal grandmother's early training in Indian philosophy and theology, the biography will effect a better under­standing of the Indians' way of life, and thereby will serve as a sug­gestion as to what direction federal programs ought to take, accompa­nied by an understanding of the current Indian problem now of national concern." 

"The portrayal of Dr. Eastman's life", said Sister Ione, "is intended to contribute to a better under­standing of the Indian at a time when America is awakening to its unjust treatment of the Indian." 

Health Plan Set Up For Relocated Indians 
A health plan through California Blue Shield was set up by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Division of Employment Assistance, effective July 1, 1970. 
Relocatee or trainee, your spouse and all unmarried dependent children from birth to 19 years of age are eligible. Membership is never auto­matic; an application is always re­quired. 
California Blue Shield payments to physicians are identical for all members of your group. Additional protection is provided when your adjusted gross family income for the calendar year preceding service was $7500 or less. Under this condition, California Blue Shield fees will be accepted by more than 18,500 physician members as payment in full for services cov­ered by your contract. If your income exceeded this amount, or if you go to a non-member phy­sician, the California Blue Shield payment will be applied to the physician's usual fee. This sub­ject should be discussed with the physician in advance of service. 
No claim forms are necessary for service benefits. Payments are made by Blue Shield directly to Physician Members and to Cali­fornia Hospitals. Your member­ship card is your "passport to service" at the physician's office or hospital. The card should be shown on your first visit to the physician or on admittance to the hospital. 
For further information regarding this health plan, contact the Bureau of Indian Affairs, San Jose Office, telephone 275-7441. 
Morgon Otis Elected New Leader Of CI E 
CLOVIS, CALIF.: Morgan Otia Kiowa, has been elected to su~ ceed Dave Risling, Jr., as president of the California Ind" Education Association (CIEA) their annual conference held r cently in Clovis, California. 
Otis is a staff member of Native American Studies faculty Sacramento State College. Risli who has served as CIEA preside since 19 67, is a member of 
Native  American  Studies  staff  
UC-Davis.  
Other  executive  board  office  

elected were: Patrick Renick fro Ukiah as northern vice-preside Gwen Onstad, UC-San Diego southern vice-president; Phyll Lee, Oroville, as secretary; Marilyn Stevens from Tuolumne treasurer. 
Also serving on the board are eight regional chairm and two student representatives. 
Regional chairmen elected a Vivien Hailstone (north coast) fr Hoopa; Thomas Merino (northeas Taylorsville; Gerald Davis (no Central Valley), Sacramento; Thomas Whitecloud (southern Ce tral Valley), Avenal; Carol Bow (southeast), Riverside; Michael ford (southwest), Poway. E Sierra and the Bay Area did elect chairmen. 
Student delegates elected La Baca from UC-Santa Barbar a head the Youth Group and M Six from Sacramento State as alternate. 
The sessions focused on educa · and the delegates make these reco mendations: 
-more EOP students; -abolish the out-of-state tui · or BIA pay the tuition; 
-establish an Indian Bureau the State Dept. of Education c centrating on reaching high sch counselors dealing with Indian S dents; 
-full support for Head Star 
-mandatory courses in Ind affairs, both historical and c rent, in teacher training schoo 
-revise textbooks to rem the prejudicial and inaccurate c tents pertaining to Indian peo and insert the contributions of minorities to the U. S. socie 


would not be able to meddle into 
their affairs. Jim Thorpe was 
there for the dedication ceremonies.
Lost Art Of Tanning Hides 
Eleanor Roosevelt was also invited 
to speak. She got in late at night (SIOUX) after dark and since she had a 
ARCHIE BLACKSMITH 
very heavy itinerary, she wished 
istory tells us that hides playedHa very important part in the 
daily lives of th~ Am~trhican Indthi~n. Hides provided him w1 ev~ry mg f m the shoes (Moccasins) he ro e to the home (Tipi) he lived
wor 
· "To Waste Not Is To Want in~t" was a code the Indian lived by He would kill only when he ne~ded food and would never kill more than he needed. Every part of the animal he killed was used for one thing or another and nothing was wasted. Many uses for the hides were developed because of the waste-not-want-not code he lived 
by.Recently, being an Indian, I was given ten deer hides by a very good friend (non-Indian) that he got while hunting in Colorado, and he took all the trouble of trans­porting them back to this state for me . As I .mentioned, my being Indian, I was supposed to know how to tan the hides, but I must confess I didn't know the first thing about tanning hides. Now I had to find out how it was done. It would have been a simple thing just to take the hides to a local tannery and get the job done. but I felt that if my ancestors could do it, so could I. I returned to the Indian community and started asking questions. The answer I most received from the question, "How did the older Indian tan hides?" was, "Well, I used to help Grandma, and I remember pulling and stretching the hides, but I don't know what she did before that. " By gathering a little infor­mation here and a little there and utting it all together, here is hat I came up with: Most hides have hair and four ayers of skin. To remove the flesh and fat from the side, you ould remove one of the inside layers of skin. To remove the hair, you use wood ashes (lime) . lace the ashes on the hair side f the skin, pour a little water n them, wrap the hide up and low to stand for two or three ayS , and the hair comes right ff. The brains and some of the 
at of the · 
h animal are saved and 
h:n b~s~d. First, they would boil ams and fat in water then
1
PP Y or rub this solution, back 
into the hide. Then the hides are stretched out on a wooden frame and allowed to dry and bleach in the sun until they are completely dry, working the hides while they are drying. Now the hard work began. The job of softening the hides to make them pliable. A pole was placed outside the tipi and the hides were drawn back and forth across the pole, then the hides were stretched and pulled and they became soft. 

Cheyem1e Camp, 1878 (Hides and Meat) Smithsonian Inst., B.A.E. 
Then it occurred to me why some of the Indians I asked didn't know how to tan the hides. It was be­cause they were children at the time and could only remember working the hides and being chil­dren, this was the job they had. It was the children's job to soften the hides and this was all they remembered. This job was by no means an easy one, but the chil­dren were expected to do their jobs. So when your mothers ask you to wash the dishes, sweep the floors, cut the grass, or whatever, remember that compared to soften­ing hides, these jobs are mere child's play, and be glad you did not live in the time when tanning hides was your job. 

Right On Schedule 
About 18 years ago on the Tona­wanda Indian Reservation, the Sene­cas were dedicating a new com­munity building which was built off Seneca land so the government 
to have the dedication over with that same night she arrived. But the Senecas insisted that the cere­monies not be held until the next day, but they wouldn't tell her their reason for their hasty de­c1s10n. Reluctantly, Mrs. Roose­velt stayed overnight. The dedi­cation took place at 11: 00 a. m. the following day. She was never informed as to the reason for the delay of the ceremony. The reason behind it was-it is bad luck to have council at night, and they would not deviate from their laws no matter how important the white man thought he was. 
Indian Entertainer Protests With Songs 
Floyd Westerman, a Sioux Indian and a country artist, from Veblen, South Dakota, released his first album, "Custer Died for Your Sins" this spring. The album was based on the book by Vine Deloria, Jr. The album is a statement against a system that has kept the Indians under the white man's thumb. 
Floyd is currently working on his second album. He has also collaborated on the record "The Anthros Are Coming", a song ad­vising Indians to hide their past from those with film cameras and tape recorders. His first single, "35 More Miles" is a haunting story about his mother who was killed by her second husband. Westerman is not bitter toward the man, however, "I can hardly blame him in a way" , he said, "because his sickness was reflec­tive of his life history in this sick society." One of his most often-sung protests concerns eco­logy. "This pollution thing is nothing new", he said. "The basic religion of the Indian has always been nature. Pollution has vio­lated our religion." 
Westerman discovered music as a means of expression while an undergraduate at Northern State Teachers College in Aberdeen, South Dakota. Since that time, he has made a career of expressing Indian beliefs, thoughts and goals in his music. 



Burial of dead following Wounded Knee massacre. 
The Tragedy Of The Massacre At Wounded Knee And My Loi 
-from-The Oglala War Cry 

The Massacre at Wounded Knee 
occurred on December 29, 1890. 
Some 295 Sioux met violent death 
at the hands of the United States 
Cavalry. Of this number most 
we·re women and children. 

There are varying accounts of what happened there concerning how the whole thing started, why it happened, and who was actually killed. One might imagine in the confusion that no one could give an accurate account of what really occurred. (Today when many people witness an occurrence there are as many stories describing it as there are witnesses.) When, some years later, an author swears his account is historically correct be­cause he has "actually" interviewed those who "were there" we can see that there could be room for some distortion. The fact still remains there were approximately 300 people murdered at Wounded 
Knee by a unit of the United States Cavalry. 
Aside from this, other undeniable events of this incident are that many of the U.S. 7th Cavalry in­volved were awarded commen­dations including several Con­gressional Medals of Honor; that two Hotchkiss guns were situated so that they could cover the entire camp quite sometime before the massacre occurred; that, in spite of the docility of Big Foot's band, 14 years after the Little Big Horn affair this kind of grudge should still be carried. (Let's remember that shortly after World War II the United States government was giving aid to Germany and Japan.) 
This, of course, is not the com­plete Wounded Knee story. It just seems a little farfetched that we should be making such a to-do about the My Lai incident some ten thousand miles away when we have such skeletons in our closet as Wounded Knee. The comparison we draw is that citations for brav­ery were awarded to those soldiers involved in the Wounded Knee af­fair while no one really knows yet what will happen to those who were at My Lai (quite possibly against their will). Does 80 years really make that much difference or is it possible that American Indian people are that muqh less important than the South Vietnam­ese a half a world away? 

Home Financing For For VTP Indians Eased 

BIA, ALAMEDA, CALIF. -The Bureau of Indian Affairs has an­nounced changes liberalizing bene­fits of the Home Purchase Pro­gram available to American Indians 
who have participated in Bureau sponsored Dire~t Emp~oyment Vocational Training Programs. Ef fective immediately, minimal down payment and closing costs may granted on a need basis to fami 
lies or single persons purchasi property in the Bay Area. P re vious residency· requirements hav also been "open ended" until Ju 30, 1971. Persons desiring further infor mation should contact John Pichette or Nancy L. Peter son 620 · ce·ntral Ave., Bldg. 2-A Alameda, or call 273-7412. 

Little Indions Toke Needed Rest 

It was vacation . time for those little Indians that are atten ing the Robert Smith Pre-schoo This was a very much needed ·re for those busy busy little guy after the heavy schedule they ha had this past year. Because the fact that they are Indian, because they have a small dan group as well, they are always demand. They recently made trip to San Francisco to the Fre rech Burk School, ,to dance .a see the children attending t sc,hool. On Dec.ember 15, the· c · dren boarded a charter bus a began their half a day field t and needless to say, they we all very much excited. Two da later, the little band moved fr the Temple Manual to the San ,Jo Indian Center. This was ,a te porary housing for their last days of school before Christ vacation, and they will be back the Temple Manual next ye January 4th, 1971 . Santa Cla was looking for them and so natural place to find little India would be at the Indian Center he in San Jose, so the staff m sure that they would be there. their last day of school, the p rents all got together and had potluck at the Center and eve one started their vacations w smiles on their little faces. 
We would like to thank the J ew· Committee this year for mak' some little Indians happy. The through the pre-school and its s gave many toys to the Indian co munity. These toys reached children of the Santa Clara Vall and some California Indian Rane erias and helped the little on believe that there is a Santa Cla 

Though-a At Random 
NO HUNTING OR FISHING 
SMOKEY SILENT FOX 
(SIOUX) 

The tribal counci~s of t~e Chey­
enne River, Pme Ridge and Lower Brule Indian reservations notified the South Dakota Fish and Parks Department that the Indian councils would not allow non-Indians to hunt deer on Indian land in the 
state. 
James Sprague, assistant director of the South Dakota Game, Fish and Parks Department, was noti­fied by the Indian council spokes­men. He was instructed that the Rosebud Sioux Tribal Council would allow non-Indian hunters but that those hunters would be charged a fee of $7. 50, payable to the tribe, 
in  addition  to  the  state  fee  of  
8. 50.  
The  Crow  Reservation  as  yet  

have made no effort to close their lands to non-Indian hunters. Rep­resentatives of the Crow people have indicated a desire to Jorn with the other Reservations in the non-Indian hunter declar~tion. 
Game department officials stated that the Indians gave no reason for their closure of their lands, but it is possible that the revenue could amount to approximately $15, 045. 00 in refund to non-Indian hunters who have purchased some 1,770 deer licenses. 
The old Fox is thrilled with this close Indian co-operation. Hope to let you in on many more of the same. 
IndianExhibition At Oakland Museum 
~he Oakland Museum's American Ind1~n exhibition (through February
2.2) includes California First Fami­hes' a display of paintings by 7 to 13-year-old Indian children from ~~ rural California areas. It will 
shown in the lower bay of TheGreat Hall. ~aintings and sculptures by Am­ericd~n Indian artists will also be 
on isplay . th
arti . m e same area. The 
sts _include Patrick Swazo Hinds a avaJo· Qu" ,
' ico Lostanau, a Yaqui 

~flllll \ll\ 1971 
(Northern Mexico tribe); Ben Aleck, from Northern California's Payute tribe; Robert Houser, a Fort Sill Apache (Oklahoma) and son of the famous Indian painter Allan Houser; and Earl Livermore, a Blackfeet (Montana area). 
The Museum's History Division will continue its current exhibition, 11 The Yana Indians and a Yana Man, Ishi," to tie-in with the Pow­Wow and "The American Indians in California. 11 
Outdoor Indian displays about ecology and environment will high­light the Natural Sciences Division's participation in the program. 
"The American Indians in Cali­fornia" is produced by Ben Hazard, The Museum's Curator of Education and Special Exhibits, and Adam Nordwall, Chairman, United Bay Area Council of American Indian 
Affairs.  
Co-sponsors  are  The  Oakland  
Museum  Association  and  Kaiser  
Center.  
Allen R. (Bob) McKenzie was named for the job. The job is to recruit young Native Americans for Union apprenticeship programs in the construction trades. 


The Oakland Museum, which is located at 10th and Oak Streets, is open Tuesday through Sunday, 10 to 5, remaining open until 10 
p. m. Friday night. 
Clearwater Down For Repairs 
SAN FRAN CISCO, CALIF. : The Clearwater has been out of service all week according to the Alcatraz Receiving Depot, and they will have it back in working condition in a few days. Presently, there are small private boats accommodating the Alcatraz occupants with fresh water. Badly needed are gas heat­ers, candles, lanterns, fuel, canned meats such as Spam, books on American Indians. 

''Excellent weather for a Rain Dance -don't you think?'' 
Indians Showing Se lf-Dete rmi notion 
LOS ANGELES: When the Depart­ment of Labor, Bureau of Appren­ticeship, added the Native Americans to their Youth Ap­prenticeship Pro­gram of the Mexi­can-American Op­portunity Founda­tion (MAOF) at 2834 E. Whittier Allen R. McKenzie


Blvd. t LosAngeles, limes Photo 
There has been no viable Native American manpower project in Los Angeles. The Native Americans haven't received recognition in the building trades and it is high time to recognize them. 
McKenzie, a Kiowa from Ana­darko, Oklahoma, came to Los Angeles in 1952 under the Bureau of Indian Affairs' relocation pro­gram. Since that time, he has parlayed his boyhood skill at re­pairing typewriters into a career as a computer technician. 
Bob McKenzie knows the job of selling many young Indians on this program will be difficult, because "they've become suspicious of any­thing connected with the govern­ment", he said. "They've been stabbed in the back so many times. 11 
Although many Indians have worked in construction before, they are not really aware they can get into the unions. Most are looking for immediate jobs and must be convinced that apprenticeship train­ing will mean better futures. 
As an Indian, McKenzie will know where to find them and will be able to talk to them. Because of their reservation background, Indians tend to communicate with each other. Mr. McKenzie feels confident that once Indians get ac­quainted with union apprenticeship programs, the program will suc­ceed. 

I N D I AN LAN Ds pa r t V: 

"Pontiac's Conspiracy" 
RUDY JAY CASAZZA 
(SENECA) 
T
he self-confident Captain Dalyell told Glad­win that General Amherst wanted Pontiac thrashed. The men at Fort Detroit were given two days of rest before marching out to attack Pontiac. It was July 31st, and the men marched p_ast the gate at 2:30 in the morning. 
The militant chief, who had been informed of the planned attack, planned his strategy well. Pontiac caught the marching men at a narrow bridge some two miles from the fort. The marching red-coats were caught in the cross fire of Pontiac. In a moment of indecision, the captain ordered a retreat to th~ rear, where they were shot at by their own men. For an hour the command was surrounded by Pontiac. Dalyell ordered a charge; in the rush he was killed, but his men marched over him to freedom and back to the fort. Of the 24 7 men twenty, including the captain~ were killed; thirty-four were wounded; and an equal number had been captured. The remainder made it back to the fort. 
The victory for Pontiac was momentary. Dalyell's survivors gave added men to Glad­win's forces inside the fort. On August 5th, the Schooner HURON (a white ship with an Indian name) made it safely to the fort's watergate, and sixty additional men were added to the fort's strength. The increased manpower gave Gladwin a new feeling of self-confidence. 
Meanwhile, in the east, Shawnees, Dela­wares, Mingoes and SENECAS were spread­ing panic among frontier settlements from Virginia to New York. As the fury of the Indians raged along the frontier, the white race began to use that contemptuous remark: 
f , / / 

/ ~ :.:>-~ . , .J·w '4J, • ....... . . , •,,/ 
"The only good mJun is a dead injun. " years to come, (within 10, to be exact) white man would fight as ·desperately i their political freedom as the Indian fou for his land, and "the only good colo would be a dead colonist!" 
Because of the Ottawa's many victorie British troops and colonial forces were · creased in that area. In late August, C Bouquet pushed a relief column across mountains and arrived at Fort Pitt. On Se tember 18th, a small band of SENECA dians gained revenge on the captain's for which had deliberately smallpoxed the Indi by raiding the eastern end of the supply 1 to Detroit, . and in ·addition, ambushed wagon train, and ·· a troop of soldiers n Niagara Falls, killing seventy-two offic and men. · 
General Amherst, who was enr aged by success of the SENECAS, increased the humanity of the orders he sent his subor nates. To Gladwin at Ft. Detroit, he wr of any · of Pontiac's Indians who fell i English hands: "should immediately be to death." To Bouquet in Pennsylvania, emphatically endorsed the atrocity of Cap Ecuyer, by suggesting "to send the small among the Indian tribes.. . " So enraged the general that he offered a reward of pounds to the man who killed Pontiac. few weeks later, in a savage fit of ang he doubled the bounty. 
Indians had never before engaged in lo range warfare. The continuous seige of troit dragged on week after week. It a new exper ience for the numerous Ind warriors and many, because they had s 
(CONTINUED ON PAGE EIGHTEEN) 

They're first in fashion 
This year's fashion for women is the American Indian Look. The Indian look can be found in most stores, including headbands, beaded and fringed belts, fringed vests and ponchos, brightly colored sashes, silver jewelry, shiny beads, etc. Also prominent are gathered skirts in multi­colored stripes and geometric patterns, resembling the Seminole tribe of Florida. Boots are "in" with the buckskin leggings, suede fringed-top boots or moccasins. All are reminiscent of the American Indians. 
Hoyword Col 








Above is Celestine Thomas (Que­chan) who is modeling her tribal midi-length dress made with ribbon banding on bottom and topped with a poncho. A beaded bib necklace and ma tchin~ headband completes the outfit. 



The Indian Dance 
Dancing played an important part in the Indian's life. It was not only a social affair, as it is in many non-Indian cultures, but was often associ­ated with serious things and used to express emotion. Some were actually religious ceremo­nials and others were part of the preparation for battle. There were comic dances, dances for curing the sick, peace dances, planting and har­vest dances, mourning dances, and hunting dances. Some were performed by men and women while others were done by a single dancer. Dances, like songs, were private property and could only be performed by the rightful owner. In most cases, they were handed down through the gener­ations. Only in dances where personal experiences were being told, was the dancer allowed to make up his own steps. 
The different tribes varied in their ways of dancing. For instance, some tribes like the North­west Coast and Iroquois, dressed and masked the dancers to represent sacred beings. This was seldom done in the religious ceremonies of the Plains. The degree of acting varied from tribe to tribe as well. 
Dance steps in great variety were used but many of them were quite simple. The following group of steps were done to a LOUD, soft, LOUD, soft beat on the drum. 
1. TOE-HEEL STEP: The weight of the body is shifted to one foot and the other is advanced so that the heel is lifted and 
\ I
I / 
I
the toe just touches the ground. The heel 
is then brought down sharply. The move­I I I 3. SCRAPE STEP: This is another modi­ments are then repeated with the other 

\ fied toe-heel step. The foot is advanced
foot. On the loud drumbeat, the toe is 
··\ 

as far as possible , so that the toe justbrought .down; on the soft, the heel is . -·' touches the ground. It is then dr agged The step can be done fast or slow. 
back and the heel is brought down. This movement is repeated alternately with each foot. The dancer either remains in place or makes a slight advance forward at each step .
2. TOE-HEEL-DRAG STEP: This is a slow forward step in which op.e foot is advanced with the toe-heel step, while the other is dragged behind. The drag­ging foot slides on the ball of the foot as the heel is lifted slightly. The change from right to left, or vice versa, is made by doing a toe-heel step with each foot . 

4. HOP STEP: This is a very common step in Indian dances . It is a skipping step with a double hop on each foot. The movement is on the ball of the foot with the knees lifted fairly high. The heel does not touch the ground. 




he Fox's mother told him this story. A
Ttrue legend of the Sioux People, this tale came about shortly after the Indians had their little chat with Custer at the Little Big 
Horn. Mother stated that this story is true. It was told to her by her folks and the Fox 
remembers  that  the  DeVaroes  always  told  
the  truth.  
11 A  little  white  boy  living  near  a  Sioux  
encampment  was  a  bosom  friend  to  a  small  

Sioux lad by the name of Hawk Feather. The white lad's father was a French/Indian trader who was highly respected by the mighty Sioux. 
The two small lads learned many things from each other. Their's was a friendship of true value, and each lad was totally happy with his lot in life until one day the white boy learned that Hawk Feather had a secret that he would not share with even his Sioux brothers. 
One day in the month of the nesting geese, the two boys were walking over the rolling hills toward the river. The day was warm and sweetly scented with new blossoms, and the native game was abundant everywhere. Tiring of bow and arrow practice, the white lad suddenly questioned Hawk Feather. "Hawk Feather, haven't we always been honest with each other?" 
"Yes, ph-wee-ne. Yes, we have been all these things. Why do you ask such a thing?" 
"Then why have you kept a secret from me, Hawk Feather? What is it that you do not wish to tell me ? If we are always to 
·
be friends and brothers, are we not always to }rust . and confide in each other?" dThat is how it is ph-wee-ne, my brother.
1 0 have a secret that I cannot tell you. 
A sacred secret. I would be severely pun­ished if I should tell you i:he secret. I can­not even tell my father the secret that I hold. How can you ask me to tell you?'' 
"You know, Hawk Feather, your secret will be safe with me. Haven't I always held our trust in greatest value? If you don't trust me, then I shall have to go home with a broken heart. " 
"Please, ph-wee-ne. Please. I can't tell. I do not want you to be harmed nor do I wish to be so punished. Please don't ask me to tell. " 
''Then I shall have to go home, Hawk Feather. It was you that said we were never to keep secrets from each other. Goodbye, Hawk Feather. I have always loved you and will continue to do so, but trust we must have. Goodbye. " 
"Come back ph-wee-ne. Come back and I shall tell you the sacred secret. I hope we will not be punished, but we are friends and brothers. Do we not share the same blood?" 
The two boys seated themselves under a great Bad Lands Cedar tree so that they might view the whole area. The river ran silently a short way from their hide-a-way and wild game moved about freely. 
"Shortly after the victory of the Little Big Horn, some of the squaws, who are now dead, went to the scene of the great battle . They were looking for lost loved ones and for things of value to keep. They found many gold and silver watches such as the one your father has. Almost all of the dead white soldiers had such a watch and the women gathered a large number of the shiney things. They made · a beautiful necklace of those watches and gave the necklace to Sitting Bull. ( CONTINUED ON PAGE EIGHTEEN ) 

D
uring the American Revolution and the years just preceding it, the most power­ful Indian friend British settlers had was Joseph Brant (born "Thayendanegea"), a war­r ior chief of the Mohawk tr ibe. .His life­time devotion to the English cause started in 1755 when, only 13 years old, he fought under Sir William Johnson in the Battle of Lake George. 
Johnson, who became British superinten­dent of Iroquois tribes in what is now up­state New York, was to play a most sig­nificant part in the young Indian's life. He had made friends with the Mohawks, learned their language, and married Molly Brant, young Joseph's sister. Sir William took Brant under his wing, had him educated at a mission school (which later became famous as Dartmouth College), and made him his assistant. . In addition to these duties, Brant, who had joined the Anglican Chur ch, worked at revising the Mohawk prayer book and translated parts of the Bible into the Mohawk language. 
By 1775 Brant had become a prominent leader, not only of his own tribe, but of the five others which made up the powerful Iroquois League of Indian Nations. As the Revolution began, he accompanied Guy John­son, Sir William's nephew, on a trip to England, acting as Johnson's secretary. The Mohawk chief was presented at court~ had tea with Boswell, and sat to have his por­trait painted by the celebrated and fashionable English artist, Romney. 
Brant returned to America completely dedi­cated to the British side in the Revolution. Al though the Iroquois League had declared itself neutral, Brant determined to bring it over to the English. British success driving Washington out of New York in 177 and the influence of his sister Molly (no widow of Sir William), helped him persu the Senecas, Cayugas, and Onondagas to jo his Mohawks. Members of the two othe League tribes, Oneidas and Tuscaroras, cho the American side or were neutral. 
Commissioned as a British officer, Br led strong bands of combined Tories a Iroquois warriors in border raids and battl up and down the Mohawk Valley, acquiri a reputation for both savage ferocity fighting skill. He surrendered only in fall of 1781, when Washington sent Gener Sullivan and his men into the field, ove whelming English and Indian forces at Battle of Johnstown, and ending war alo the Mohawk. 
In 1783, the Revolution at an end, Br still commissioned by the British and retain on half pay, was rewarded with a grant English land along the Grand River in 0 tario, where he settled with his Moha followers. Other Indians from the Six N atio joined them, and the area became known the Six Nations Reserve. Brant ruled it peace until his death in 1807, when 
youngest  son,  John,  became chief of  
Mohawk  tribe.  
He  is  buried  near  a  small  

he had built on the Grand River near Br an ford, Ontario. A marker reads: "This to is erected to the memory of Thayendanege or Captain Joseph Brant, principal chief warrior of the Six Nations Indians, by fellow subjects, admirers of his fidelity attachment to the British Crown." 
From U.S. Government publication 'Famous Indians'. 
I DI AN vol 


Joseph Brant (Thayendanegea). The original of this painting of the famed Mohawk chief hangs in the State House at Philadelphia. Photo: Smithsonian Institution. 
Hl \ I\) I q; 1 

The Legend Of .,,. 
11' 


THE TEEPEE 
John Eagle Hawk 
S
omewhere back in the dawn of time, Sotu and his wife Meha left their home and tribe in the far south. The game was scarce and the people were starving. Ever north they traveled and at last they came to a country of rolling hills where you could see for miles on end. 
They had several half wild dogs that Sotu had trained to carry their things. Meha •was heavy with child and as the weather turned cold and it started to snow, they were at a loss as to what to do. Meha said, "We must stop here in these hills where the trees will give us shelter from the wind; you will hunt for the meat and I will make the shelter until it warms up like at home. " But Meha was not able to make a shelter against the cold. 
When Sotu returned with a deer, he sat under a low pine tree, smoked his pipe, and thought. "Meha", he said, "if I cut off the low branches of this tree and we wrap your dry hides over it and fasten them with sharp sticks, I think we will have a good shelter." So they wrapped the tree almost to the top and put stones around the bottom on the hides to hold them down. With a small hole in front to enter by, they had a good place to live. They even found out that they could have a small fire in it. They spent their first winter in this place and so at last, Atu, their first son was born here. 
When the warm weather came at last, Sotu brought many deer home and Meha tanned the hides, and with her awl and bone needle, she made a shelter in the same shape as the tree. She trimmed the branches from small trees until she had enough poles to shape them like the pine tree. She put the hide cover over the poles, and so the first Teepee was made. She added hides to the bottom to make it larger as they moved ever northward, and she cut new poles as they stopped along the way . By the time they reached the Northern Plains, the first "Indian Lodge", in all its glory, came into its own. 
HONORS FOR INDIAN HISTORIANS 

AR CHIE BLACKSMITK 
( S1 0 U X) 

The American Indian Hist
oric Society, following a tradition tablished seven years ago when organization was founded, has na:rn two Indian people as Honored dian Historians for the year 
They are Marie Potts, Indian woman of Sacramento, Calif one of the founders of the ated Indians of California and ol time fighter for Indian r ights; William Morgan, Navajo lin and native historian now at Navajo Community College at Chi Arizona. Mr. Morgan has hel in establishing Navajo as a language for students in schools, and has worked succes fully with anthropologists in 1 guistics to develop new progr in granting professional recogni to native historians in the field linguistics. 
"We honor those of our who have dedicated themselves the development of understan about the Natives, as an incen to our youth to follow their examples, " said Rupert president-director of the all-In society. The two native histor will receive, as part of privileges, life membership in American Indian Historical Soci a life subscription to The In Historian, and copies of all b published by the Society and Indian Historian Press, publis agency for the Society. 
RFK Fellowship Award Given To Navajo Woman 
FARMINGTON, N. M.-One of year's Robert F. Kennedy Memo Fellowships Awards was given Mrs. Jennie R. Joe (Navajo), first Indian woman to receive honor. 
Mrs. Joe holds other "firsts." was the first Navajo nurse to gra ate from the University of Mexico; the "first" Navajo nur be commissioned in the U.S. N and the "first" Indian woman to ceive a Master's degree in pu health from the University of fornia (Berkeley). 


Five Civilized Tribes Wish To Elect Chiefs 
The Oklahoma City Counc11. of Ch taws and many othe_r In ians f ~~e Five Civilized Tribes, have working for many months to
been d · 
et a fair election law passe m 
the . s. Congress so thaft evtry member of these tribes . o vo mdg 
and l/4 or more Indian bloo , ge 'ict have a fair and reasonable 
\ OU . h . f
ch nee to vote for his c oice or chief. . 
The bill, s. 3116, was mtroduced by Senator Henry Bellmon and Senator Fred Harris in the Senate and passed. When it went to the House of Representatives, the bill \ as changed to r.ead "select" in­stead of "elect". Representative Ed Edmondson of Muskogee was on the committee in the House that made changes. A phone call \ as made to Edmondson's office, and the person who answered com­mented that the changes were made after a consultation with · Tribal leaders . The Indians assumed that the tribal leaders were appointed by the Assistant Secretary of the Interior who draws money from tribal funds. The person answering claimed to not know the names of the tribal leaders. , 
The following is quoted from the Congressional Record of October 5, 1970, on part of the talk Rep. Edmondson of the committee made to the House about the changes in the bill: 
"Mr. Edmondson. Mr. ,Speaker, the purpose of S. 3116 is to per­mit the members of the Five Civi­lized Tribes of Oklahoma to select their own principle Chiefs or Gov­ernor. They are now appointed by the Secretary of the Interior: .... ' The bill as introduced prov:(.ded that the principle chiefs and Gov­rnor must be popularly elected. The committee amended the bill to provide that they shall be se­ected by the tribes in accordance ith procedures approved by the ecretary of the Interior. The ommittee felt that it would be m ise to impose on the tribes by tatute a mandatory requirement hat the Principle officers must be opularly elected. The choice · of he me~hod of selecting the princi­l~ officers should •be left to the ~1bes themselves. The fact that e Secretary of the Interior must ~pro e the selection procedures ould Provide a safeguard against 
the adoption of undemocratic or 
inequitable' regulations. " 

.The following is a copy of the Act, or bill, as passed and signed into Public Law 91-495, by the P resident on October 22, 1970: 
"Be it enacted by the Senate and 
., . House of Representatives of the United States of America in Con­gress assembled, That, notwith­standing any other provisions of law, the principal chiefs of the .Cherokee, Choctaw, Creek, and · Seminole Tribes of Oklahoma and the governor of the Chickasaw Tribe of Oklahoma shall be popularly se­lected by .the r·espective tribes in accordance with procedures estab­lished by the officially recognized tribal spokesman and or governing entity. Such established procedures shall be subject to the approval by the Secretary ·of the Interior. " "Sec. 2. The Secretary of the Interior or his representative is hereby authorized to assist, upon r equest, any of -such officially r e-cognized tribal spokesman ;md/or · governing entity in the development and implementation of such pro­cedures." 
nse~. 3. ·A principal officer se.:.. lected pursuant to section 1 of thi~ . Act sµall be duly recognized as .the principal chief, or in the case of the Chickasaw Tribe, the governor, of that tribe." 
"Sec. 4. Any principal officer currently holding office at the date of enactment of this Act shall con­tinue to serve for a period not to exceed twelve months or until ex­piration of his most recent appoint­ment, whichever is shorter, unless an earlier vacancy arises from r esignation, disability, or death of the incumbent, in ·which case the office of principal chief or gover­nor may be filled at the earliest possible date in accordance with section 1 of this Act. " 
"Sec. 5. Nothing in this Act shall prevent any such incumbent referred to in section 4 of this Act from being elected as princi­pal chief or governor. 
VOTE YESI 

All subscribers within the San Jose Unified School District are urged to vote YES on the February Bond 
Issue.  A  YES  vote  will  
mean  better  schools  and  
quality  education  for  our  
children.  

Yakimas Give Alaskan Natives Fight Loan 
TOPPENISH, WASH.-The -Yakima Tribal Council has agreed to loan $225,000 to the Alaska Federation of Natives in a spirit of assistance to a group needing help. The Alaska organization is currently waging a fight for land claims. The loan was made without collateral with repay­ment to be made after the settle­ment of the claims. 
The signing of the loan docu­ments took place in a colorful cere­mony in which the Yakima leaders appeared in full Indian dress. Final approval must be given by secretary of the Interior Hickel since the Yakima tribe comes under the juris­diction of that department. 
The culmination of the loan agree­ment was viewed as a symbolic sign of cooperation among the native peoples of the country. It may be 
.• significant of a coming trend, since 
Indians, on the whole, think tribally rather than as a united people. The making of the loan has given Indian people a greater sense of national­ism. 
In offering the loan, the Yakima people remembered the land fights they had in 1885 to get their reser­vation set aside and to get paid for 
.lands lost to them. The reservation, encompassing a million acres in Washington has a 500,000 timber resource. The tribe averages about $6.5 million per year from timber. 
Navajo Ph D. Joins Brigham Young University 
PRovo, UTAH -Dr. Bahe Billy (Navajo), the first of his tribe to earn a doctorate in agricultural science, has been appointed to the faculty of Brigham Young Uni­versity. 
Dr. Billy received his Ph.D. this spring from the University of Ariz­ona. His Master's was earned at the same university and his Bachelor's in soils science at Utah State Uni­versity. For the past two years he has been an agricultural coordinator and instructor at Navajo Communi­ty College. 
~~ 

RELOCATION JOE 

The 


DEVIL 
"You might say that I'm 
BACK IN THE CI TY
c 1ean in g up!" 

DANCERS 
In this photo, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, Louis R. Bruce (Mohawk-Sioux) (left center) meets with new appointees to key Bureau executive posts-among them, 15 Indians-an historic "first~'. The new appointees are, left to right (back): Harold Bassett; William "Billy"• Mills (Sioux), Olym­pic gold medal winner, 1964; Ernest Stevens . (Oneida), for­merly head of Indian CAP in California; Anthony Lincoln (Navajo), first of his tribe to hold a top level BIA po­sition; Leon F. Cook (Chippewa), economic specialist; George 
D. Scott (Creek-Seminole), former educational director, Chicago Indian Center; Herschel Sahmaunt (Kiowa), former staff member, Senate subcommittee on Indian education; Calvin Brice, John Sykes. .Left to right (front): Harold D. Cox (Creek),. former air force lieutenant colonel and fiscal officer for the U.S. Office of Education; Harry Rainbolt (Pima), BIA career employee; Arthur Cajarsa;· Flore Lekanof (Aleut), former executive director, Alaska CAP; Franklin Ducheneaux (Sioux), since resigned to become executive di­rector, National Congress of American Indians; Helen Peter­son (Sioux), former director, Denver Commission on Human Relations; Alexander McNabb (Micmac), a former special assistant with the OEO; James Hena (Tesuque-Zuni), former Director of Development, Navajo Community College; Robert Gajdya; Clarence Acoya (Laguna), former executive director, New Mexico Commission on Indian Affairs; Allen Quetone (Kiowa) BIA career employee. 
ARCHIE BLACKSMITH 
( SIOU X ) 

The day was the hottest the year! 
The drums slowly began beat, the singers softly beg to sing and the Old Man be gan to dance. 
People of the village often warned the Old that he should not dance such hot days. The Old would always reply, "I ha: had a dream and in my dre I would dance forever! " the time of day, when sun was the hottest, the 0 Man began to stagger, stumbl and fell. He was dead. 
The people sitting watc · said this is what happened 
The Old Man fell, but fore his body hit the ear from under his battered m casins came a gusting, whi ing, twisting wind. The w· moved around the dancing a three times, stopped, dar to the open plains and across the desert. 
The Whiteman, not believi not understanding, calls wind "THE DEVIL DANCE The Indians know that w they see the twisting gust wind, and if the Indian chi ren look hard enough, will see in the middle of great wind, the Old Man do what he loved to do-danc · 

.c::,::::>Ctc==::>Uc::::::::>

c:::=:>e~ 
Boy Area Indian Basketball Season Big Success 
O\ every Saturday afternoon th Bay fans can watch talented I~~ian basketballers perform right in our own backyard . Seven
h e
er h. f
Indian teams &how t eir . ancy dribbling and dead-eye shootm? at Lincoln High School's gymnasium . Games start at one o'clock and last the whole afternoon. 
For several years the South Bay athletes always had to journey north to either San Francisco or Oakland to take part in an organized ath­letic Indian League. It was hurry home from work or school, grab a bite to eat, and push off each day there was a game. You never kne\ how long that 50-mile free­way jour ney would take in order to et there for game time. 
\i ith remedial thoughts in mind, 
small committee of local Indian 

The photo above was taken during a recent game between the New Sioux and the Oakland Indian Raiders. Pictured are: Larry Brady , Leroy Six Toes , 
(10), Wayn~ Waukazo (7), and Leroy Franklin (22). 
sport enthusiasts and several vet­
eran athletes commenced to form San Jose's own athletic Indian League . Recreational and athletic facilities in San Jose area that are available for Indian use, far exceed those facilities that are presently being used in the north­ern cities. The committee took these and several overwhelming aspects to the next weekly Pow Wow, and started their preparation and planning. Three or four pow wows later, an Indian League was formed which is now in full oper­ation. 
The sport-minded committee not only formed an Indian League, but actually staged a Christmas All­Indian Basketball Tournament. The Basketball Tournament, along with 
other  Indian  festivities,  was  held  
at  the  City  College  in  San  Jose,  
which  I'm  sure  turned  out  to  be  
a  great  success.  

The committee at the present time is comprised of several promi­nent athletes such as Hank LeBeau, 
AIL-INDIAN 

DANCE 
Music by t he 
''UNIQUE FIVE'' 
MAYFAIR RECREATION CENTER 2 039 Kammerer Ave, 
S an Jose 
Saturday FEBRUARY 20th 
Danc ing 8: 30 to 1:30 
Leroy Sixtoes, Gus Adams, Daryle Standing Elk, Russell Bradley, Bill Porter, and other sport-minded Indians who donate their time and efforts when they can. The com­mittee is now in the process of forming a permanent sport associ­ation preferably to be composed of Indian athletes, sport enthusiasts and others who would like to help promote athletic events in Santa Clara Valley. 

The small athletic association should be commended for their extra lengths in doing their part in making it possible for us who enjoy watching our American In­dians in athletic competition. 
Teams participating in the newly born Indian League are: San Jose "Travelers", San Jose "Cowboys" , San Jose "Sioux", San Francisco "Hor semen", Red Vest "Knights" , Oakland "Red Devils", and Oakland Indian "Raiders". 

FEBRUARY INDIAN "A" LEAGUE SCHEDULE (ALL GAMES WILL BE PL AYED AT FRI CK JUN IOR HI GH GYM, 6250 FOOTHILL BLVD., OAKLAND, ON FRIDAYS) 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1971 6:~5 pm Oakland Indian Raiders 
8:00 pm San Jose Travelers 
9:15 pm San Jose Sioux 
FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 19, 1971 6:~5 pm Oakland Indian Raiders 
8:00 pm San Jose Cowboys
9:15 pm San Jose Sioux FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1971 vs Red Vest Knights 
6 ~5  pm  San Jose Cowboys 
8 00  pm  Red  Vest Knights 
9 15  pm  San  Jose Sioux  

vs Oakland Red Devils 
vs San Jose Cowboys vs San Jose Travelers 
vs Oakland Red Devils 
VS Red Vest Knights vs Oak 1and Ind. Raiders 
VS San Jose Travelers 
vs Oakland Red Devils 

"PONTIAC'S CONSPIRACY' 
(Continued from page eight) 

seen the French of Detroit change allegiance, followed example and de­serted the chief. One by one the bands of Indians treatied for peace and returned to their tribal lands . 
Defection by his warriors and the realization that the kings of France and England had made peace, Pontiac knew his dream had been shattered. As the war now would involve Indian against Indian, instead of Indian against the white, the great chief sought a peace treaty. In July, he met with George Croghan near Fort Quiatenan, and accompanied that In­dian agent to_ Fort Detroit, where he confirmed his desire to seek peace. 
The British General Guage, influ­enced by the reports of General Amherst, who had been cheated out of the death of Pontiac, shrewdly undermined the influence of Pontiac, and ultimately caused his murder. The general deliberately played up to the Chief by provoking the jeal­ousy of the chief's followers. Ru­mors were spread that the chief was now pro-British and was being paid a daily 100 shillings by the Royal Crown. In 1766, when Pontiac tra­veled to meet William Johnson in the land of the SENECAS (New York), wagers were made that the chief would be killed within the year by an envious Indian. 
The chief returned and settled among his own people on the Maumee River. Peace had been restored; and so had white injustices against the Indians. Settlers were flooding once more into the Ohio Valley; the ar­rogance of the traders had increased, and so had the hostilities of the soldiers of the West. The fears and resentments of the Indians were on the increase, and they were causing new threats of war. 
But, the old enemy of the British, Chief Pontiac, now appeared to be pro-white and was counseling for a continued peace. Members of his village turned against him, and ru­mors were that his former warriors administered physical beatings to him as they would a squaw. Desperately in May of 1768, the Chief, with the aid of a Frenchman, wrote to the British at Detroit that his young men had "shamed" him and that he was being forced to leave his village. He traveled to the Illinois country with a small following of relatives and loyal friends, but there was no longer respect or safety for the once great chief. On April 20, 1769, he visited a trading post in Cahokia. Unarmed and accompanied only by a Peoria Indian who he thought was a friend, the Great Chief Pontiac was murdered. The Peoria Indian fol­lowed him out of the store and on the street; struck the chief over the head with a war-club and then stabbed him. As the Peoria fled, the great war chief who had once led eighteen powerful tribes from Lake Ontario to the Mississippi-the largest union ever conceived by one man on this continent-sank to the ground and died. Ironically, the race he once fought saw fit to name numerous streets and towns, as well as a leading automobile, after this great chief. It was the white race who rediscovered the great chief, but it was the Indians of a later generation who proclaimed him. Chief Pontiac was indeed the Billy Mitchel of his race! And the chief ranks only sec­ond to Tecumseh as a military genius of his race. 
Next: "The total destruction of Iroquois settlements and the massacre of as many of every age and sex as pos­sible" as commanded by General George Washington, and carried out by Generals John Sullivan and James Clinton, and Col. Daniel Broadhead. 

"How long has Charlie been watching that eagle?" 

THE NECKLACE 
(Continued from page eleven) 
When the necklace was placed around the great man's neck, one of the watches opened up and inside the cover was the face of a pretty white squaw and a little girl." 
"Well, as you know, the braves and even Sitting Bull were fearful of what you call pictures, photos as your father calls them. It was 
feared that harm would come to 0 
leader, Sitting Bull, so one of 0 
great warrior braves was chosen 

take the necklace away and to sec 
retly bury it. We still believe that 
those pictures contain spirits, bad 
spirits." 

"My mother saw me watching the council deciding what to do with the necklace and she told me to kee away from .everything to do with t necklace. I love my mother, but did not understand what the necklac was. I was curious and so I ere out to follow the great war ri Ki-hi-soh-quin. He was very cleve and was sure that no one saw hi as he slipped away in the ear} morning. I was so small that did not see me and I was able see the whole thing. I saw him d a deep hole with his digging sti and I watched him as he placed wrapped necklace deep in the h and carefully cover it. He made place so completely covered a natural that I had trouble finding as soon as he left. " 
"The warrior was sworn to gre secrecy so it was thought that alone knew of the burial place the necklace. The warrior was kill soon thereafter at Bitter Creek the secret is now thought to be safe 
"There, now I have told you we are again friends and brothers. 
Ph-wee-ne, the white boy, was very impressed and yet a little dou ful that he talked long and pers sively with Hawk Feather until Ha Feather finally agreed to show ht the secret hiding place of the nee lace. They had great difficulty 1 eating the spot which was at base of a giant tree. The gr and weeds had covered the enti area and the tree was dead fr lightning. 
The two boys found the neckl of watches. Due to the deer hi wrapping and bear fat1 the watc were in excellent condition. heavy gold watch with the picture the lady and littl~ girl was still fine condition, and secretly Ph-wee­slipped the picture from the wa and into his pocket. 
Fearful of what might happen we they to be caught and their sec disclosed, the two boys replaced necklace and carefully replaced ground and grass cover. 
Many years later it was found the pictures were of a great 1 and her daughter. They were famous that the secret was ne disclosed as to where the pie came from. The watch neckla the "Spirit Necklace", is still in secret hide-a-way to this day. Fox knows that at least some of old Dakota people will remember legend of the "Spirit Necklace". 
~~...*~~*.g*#~t,,t.tt~<t-# 


Mohave Indian Named Head Of Phoenix School 
,,
i'. 

MARIPOSA ENCHILADA PIEAfE T FISH PIE 
7 tortillas, grated Parmesan
3 cups boiled rice cheeselarge onions
3 1 pound ground beef, 2 large
4-5 hard boiled eggs onions (ground)Butter' salt, pepper. 
1 can chopped ripe olives, 2') laro·e cans salmon or 4 cups cans hot sauce or chile sauce..., fre;h fish, cut up 
made from red peppers, saltpie pastry.
Line an 8" x 11" pan or py-and pepper. 
Brown meat in skillet. Add
rex dish with pastry. Co_ver ground onions, mix and cook
bottom with a_ layer of boiled rice. Then sprinkle with half of slowly with lid on about 15 min­the onions fried in butter and utes. Add chopped olives and half of the eggs cut up. Sprei:;d mix. these layers with the fish. Next Heat hot sauce in shallow pan. 
add the rest of the onion and Lightly grease casserole (round egg to cover the . fish, another one). 
Dip a tortilla into hot saucetopping layer of rice, and a ~op 
crust of pastry. Bake 45 mm-and place in casserole. Sprinkle liberally with meat mixture and
utes. 
with powdered Parmesan cheese. Repeat the process until just one tortilla remains . Dip it intoCHEROKEE YAM CAKES sauce, place on top, sprinkle with cheese, and put into slowcup cooked mashed yams or oven for about 30 minutes. Servesweet potatoes in six wedges.
Ac.ld 1/2 cup cooking oil and 1/2 cup milk Sift together: 2 cups fiour, 
CHIPPEWA POPPED RICE
2-1/2 teaspoons baking powder and 1-1/2 tablespoons sugar 
Pop rice as you would popand 1-1/2 teaspoons salt. 
corn. Serve hot with milk ordd flour mix to yam mix, with butter as is done with pop­and mix lightly with a fork. Turn 
corn.
dough onto floured board and knead gently about 12 kneading . 
' 
strokes until smooth. Roll about 1/4 inch thick and cut into rounds . Place on greased sheet and ~ -'~ . bake 10-12 minutes at 425 degrees. 
-~~f~!Jl~: -. -----­
-

SUBSCRIBE  NOW  
S°lJBSCRIPT ION  RATE:  $5,. UO  YEARLY  (1 :2  1SSUES)  
1AIL  TO :  

. TREET _______________________ C' ITY ___ ______STATE ________ 1/. IP ___ 
''INDIAN VOICE'' P.O. BOX 2033 SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 
~R l \HY 1971 
P.HOENI?(, ARIZ. -Vincent Little (MohaueFhas been appointed super­intendent of Phoenix Indian School, one of the larger federal Indian schools. 
Little's selection reflected the unanimous choice of the Phoenix Intertribal School.Board who helped to fill the position. The selection marks the placement of another In­dian in a top BIA administrative post. 
Little attended Phoenix College with an educational grant from his tribe. He received both a B.A. and 
M.A. in education from Arizona State University. 
He began his career with the BIA in 1957 as a teacher at the school he now heads. Later, he was an out­standing graduate of the Interior Department's management training program. 


aVatta Heads Carlisle Hall Of Fame Memorial 
CARLISLE, PA.-The famous Car­lisle Indian School, synonymous with the memory of Jim Thorpe (Sac and Fox) , Olympic champion and the great athlete and football player, may become an Indian cul­tural center. 
A Carlisle Monument Establish­m~mt Committee, headed by George LaVatta (Shoshone) is working up a Hall of Fame to honor famous Carlisle athletes and living and de­ceased alumni. 
A bill is presently before Congress to provide a·building to display the records and memorabilia of Carlisle as a famous Indian school and to open the cultural center. 
The school first opened in 1879 when it was abandoned by the U. S. Cavalry and given to the Interior Department for the purpose of "be­ginning an educational institute for Indians." Carlisle was the first In­dian schoool to be opened by the government and the first to receive Congressional recognition and ap­propriations. 
The school was closed in 1918 to 
serve for the care of the wounded of 
World War I. In 1962, it was dedi­
cated as a National Landmark. 

~,~ INDIAN EVENTS ~,i 
JANUARY FEBRUARY 
29 ---California League for Am­13 ---Valentine's Dance. San Fran­erican Indians, San Fran­cisco Indian Center. Do­cisc.o Indian Center. 6: 30 nation $1. 00. 9: 00 PM PM. Speaker Grace Thorpe 
13 ---Basketball tournament. 2nd 
30 ---"Indian Voice" Benefit Dance day. Bishop, Calif. Live music. Two bands, "The Unique Five" and "The 14 ---Basketball tournament. 3rd Countrymen" . 9: 00 PM at day. Bishop, Calif. Mayfair Center, 2039 Kam­merer Ave., San Jose 17 ---BANAC meeting. San Fran­
ciscoindian Center. 7:30 PM 
30 ---Indian Land Subcommittee (Indian Sierra Club) at UC­18 ---Indian Co-op meeting. San Davis. 10:00 AM to 3:00 PM Jose. 7:30 PM. Call 251­
1947 for information FEBRUARY 
20 ---"Indian Voice" Dance. Live 3 ---BANAC meeting. San Fran­music. Mayfair Center, cisco Indian Cente r. 7:30 PM 2039 Kammerer Ave., San 
Jose 
4 ---Indian Co-op meeting, San Jose. 7:30 PM. For in­20 ---Oakland Pow Wow. YMCA formation call Esther Gee 45th Ave. , Oakland at 251-1947 
20 ---Dance . San Francisco In­5 ---Pow Wow -San Francisco dian Center. 9:00 PM Indian Center -9:00 PM 23 ---Day care meeting. San 
6 ---Dance. San Francisco In­Francisco Indian Center. dian Center. Live music. 7:30 PM 9: 00 PM. Admission $1. 50 
24 ---BANAC meeting. San Fran­9 ---Day care meeting. San cisco Indian Center. 7: 30 PM Francisco Indian Center. 
7:30 PM 25 ---Indian Co-op meeting. San Jose. 7:30 PM. Call 251­10 ---BANAC meeting. San Fran­1947 for information cisco Indian Center. 7: 30 PM 27 ---U.A. I. Pow Wow. Lee 
11 ---Indian Co-op meeting. San Mathson School. San Jose J ose. 7:30 PM. Call Esther Gee at 251-1947 for infor­27 ---Dance. San Francisco In­mation dian Center. 9:00 PM 
12 ---Three-day Invitational All­28 ---Santa Clara Womens Club Indian basketball tour na­benefit dance for the New ment. Bishop, Calif. Con­Sioux basketball team tact Leroy SixToes at 259­6519 for information 
Dead l ine for pu blication of sch eduled Indian even ts for
13 ---American Indian Council 
th e nex t is sue of Indian
Pow Wow. Redwood School. 
Voi ce is Fe bruary 15th.
Saratoga 
INDIAN VOICE 
P.O. Box 2033 Santa Clara, Calif.95051 
Time Value Return Requested Dated mate 



