

 
Indian Voice, the all Indiam monthly magazine, is published by the Native Am e rican Publishing Company, a non­profit organization, to present an authentic view of the American Indi an history,culture and heritage . It will endeavor to express the hop es, fears and aspirations of those who are the true Native Americans.  
Ed i t o r FERN WILLIAMS (Sioux) PH:246 -144 2 Assoc iate Edi tor RUDY CASAZZA (Seneca) Associ at e Editor SMOKEY SILENT FOX (Sioux), Ass oc iate Editor _ARCHI E BLACKSMITH ( Sioux ) S e cr P t ary-Tr Pas 11 r P1 MARY ANNE NAVARRO (I, I {)\\ <L ) ) [llu s trat or ARTHUR MILLARD (Cuechan) Ex e c u t i 1 · 1' S t a f f ANN HANSEN (Acorr,a-Pue b I a) JERRY ROYBAL (Ji ca r i 11 a) GEORGETTE BOYER (Sioux)  
Readers comments in the form of of letters or articles are welcome. Please mail your articles to Editor, P.O. Box 2033, Santa Clara, Calif., 95050­ 
SUBSCRIPTION DONATION $5.00 Yearly  


Leonard Bedeaux 
Above all, I'm an Indian, Minnesota Chip­pewa. I'm neither an authority nor a "pro­fessional Indian." These are my views and mine alone. Disagree if you wish. I will listen and possibly compromise or learn from you. This is the way it should always be. The graveyards of the world are full of people who are unable to change their minds. We, the American Indians, are alive and still have a chance. Our lives are even now being enhanced by the wondrous efforts of a combined Indian effort. 
I'm tired of hearing about the 400 years of general mayhem perpetuated by "white yes" to the Red man. It is true. We know it's true, hut so what? Such ranting and raving with overtones of racism are excel­lent devices for gathering the naive and un­thinking element in our society such tactics are generally used to arouse the latent de­structiveness and evil that lies buried in each man. "Come, let us · reason together," said someone or other. That should be our clue. We must reason together in order to find answers to the many problems that con­front the Indian people of today. 
Are we, the American Indians, unified? Do we, each and every one of us, seek similar goals? What are those goals? Such goals and each question must first be re­solved before we can move on to a positive program of self-awareness and determination. There is strength in unity of purpose. It seems we humans must suffer to realize there is indeed strength in unity of purpose. The American Indian suffers. 
Do we have the leadership that will accept responsibility? Responsibility without "selling out" or turning into an "uncle tomahawk" ? We all know history is full of "do-gooder s" who later become oppressors of their own people. Look at the Banana Republics to our immediate south. How often have they changed leadership only to find another re­gime equally as bad or even worse than the last? Will our liberal leaders be the arch conservatives of the future? Let's hope not. 
The days of stalking the deer and other wildlife for sustenance are over. Over and gone as has the ox-cart and stagecoach. we 
(Continued on page seventeen) 
INDIAN VO I C 

THIS MONTHS COVER Hearings Held On 
. ture on this month's 
The PI c · f a 
. reproduction o
is a 
Indian Education Act
cover_ by Alvin Jake, modern 

inting . T"tled "Pawnee
1

ee artist. n reserv ing corn," it shows en P f f
tak ing care o corn o 

omen first harvest, when green 
re plucked. Some of the 

e rs we 
Was ea ten fresh, either 
corn · f
ted or bo iled; the grain o 


oas k' 
e of the corn, after coo ,ng, Ped Off the cob, d r i e d , 

scra

d stored . The women are l·n woven trade mater-
d . Earth lodges with their 
I aI 5¦ es ibule entrances form the 
c grou~_n_d_.______ 

m your publication necessary to 
ocation Program as it is our function people who are relocating urban areas informed and aware 
happening back home. 

George Miller Urban Indian Development Assoc. Angeles, Calif. 
you very much for your valuable ution to our demonstration collection multicultural educational materials. 
Margaret Nichols ord University 

tulations to you and to your fel­members for your fine, new Indian Voice. 
learned about Indian Voice from Clayton Willis. He is very I am, that a project he has people to get behind for over finally underway. This is the bridge on which construction This bridge is being built San Juan River near Bluff so people, who have had to drive 50 miles to reach the same point in Bluff 
from the avajo Reservation because there n no automobile bridge there, will to get back and forth to work. bridge will also provide Navajo people r health opportunities as well tourt t development in the Utah section Reservation as well as connecting
0ther parts of the Reservation magaziue is serving a fine caus~ communications between In­ople and the general public. 
G Elizabeth K. Willis 
n~ Conn. 
• Check . 
-. is .enclosed for a subscription
uuian Voice• 1 d
lt to • an I shall also pub-the Indian members .of our 
Rev. Ward McCabe 


1 97 l 
by RICHARD LA COURSE 
WASHINGTON, D. C. (AIPA): The educational policies and performance of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Office of Education in the De­partment of Health, Education and Welfare were subjected to sharp and continuous criticism here during the first phase of hearings on the controversial Kennedy Indian Edu­cation Act April 28-29. 
Before a packed Senate subcom­mittee chamber including Mrs. Eunice Kennedy Shriver, Mrs. Jean Kennedy Smith and the eldest son of the late Sen. Robert F. Kennedy, Indian Commissioner Louis R. Bruce and HEW's Education Com­missioner Sidney P. Marland Jr. und~rwent intense questioning on the educational implementing of the Nixon policy of self-determination by their respective agencies. 
Sens. Edward M. Kennedy; D­Mass., and Walter F. Mondale, D-Minn. , defended their bill by seizing the initiative in a barrage_ of questions directed to Bruce and Marland. On the second day of hearings, they heard testimony from 13 representatives of national and regional Indian organizations on the proposed legislation. 
Criticism of the bill centered on administrative placement of the projected National Board, definition of the term "Indian" to satisfy requirements for coverage under the bill, certain loss of funding for some schools and the direct control of educational monies at the local level. 
Education Commissioner Marland of HEW was questioned on the number of off-reservation students qualifying for assistance under current OE programs and the ex­tent of powers exercised by Indian parents on school systems receiv­ing funds through the OE. 
Marland assured Kennedy that there was an "implicit revolution­ary change" under the present ad­ministration in the field _of Indian education. 
Bruce was assailed for the re­peated vacancies occurring.in stra­tegic positions in the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Testimony revealed that the BIA' s position of education commissioner had been unfilled for 14 of ·20 months of Bruce's ad­ministration. 

In testimony at th e h ear ings, Commissioner Bruce stated that, 
• ' Everything we try to do in our Central Office is label ed wi t h suspicion..... '' 

"I can't believe that you canYt be sufficiently persuasive in terms of Civil Service to get the po­sitions filled and the jobs done_," said Kennedy. "These vacancies stare us in the face. " 
Mondale called the key issue in Indian education "one of velocity" stating that "I get so many letters from the BIA signed 'Acting This' and 'Acting That' that I get the idea I'm dealing with the Depart­ment of the Theater." 
Bruce cited review, reorgani­zation and redelegation of authority within the BIA as "positive steps" taken to sensitize the Bureau to educational needs. He also stressed the BIA's development of a National Advisory Council on Indian Edu­cation, its review and recommen­dations on transfer of authority and its ongoing critique of the BIA education budget prior to submission to the Bureau of Management and Budget. 
Asked by Kennedy why "so few local school boards actually oper­ate their own school systems," Bruce replied: 
"Everything we try to do in our Central Office is labeled with sus­picion as we go along in a search for our hidden motives. . There is still widespread concern over ter­mination and every move, every change may account for delay. We are trying to be a service organi­zation, and it's taking some time." 
In other· testimony: 
Will Antell (National Indian Edu­cation Assn. ) commended the bill, calling Indian control of school programs and educational needs of non-reservation Indians the "two 
(CONTINUED ON PAGE FIFTEEN) 


American Indians Were 


First Environmentalists 
WASHINGTON, D. C. (AIPA): The American Indians were called the "First environmentalists" at the opening of Earth Week activities here. 
"There are no people more sen­sitive to our natural environment than are Indian people," remarked Rogers C. B. Morton, Secretary of the Interior, to a group of edu­cators from Indian boarding and day schools across the country. 
Traditional Indian reverence for nature marked the theme of the five-day meeting of educators for an Indian Environmental Education Workshop at the BIA here and Catoctin Mountain Park, Maryland. 
Morton told the group that Indian history, religion and philosophy all reflect a oneness with nature. He said environmental education in In­dian schools is an "exciting be­ginning" and will provide . Indian children with an "opportumty for leadership beyond anything I've seen for a long time." 
"This is a forerunner of environ­mental awareness to children across the country, " Morton said. 
Miss Wilma Victor, Choctaw, recently appointed as Morton's Special Assistant for Indian Affairs, praised the BIA program as a means of directing a new level of environmental consciousness to the country through Indian people. 
Louis R. Bruce, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, said the environ­mental awareness program "is de­signed to infuse an awareness of the environment into traditional art, mathematics, English, history, and social studies, as well as in the sciences, where it often res~s." 
Bruce was asked how environ­mental awareness could be infused in Indian children when they often see their lands indiscriminately destroyed by dam building and superhighway construction. 
"We are taking steps to correct that situation," Bruce remarked. 
Clevelan d Pow Wow Big Success 
CLEVELAND, OHIO (AIPA): Ap­proximately 600 participants from cities and reservations in the East and Midwest gathered here April 16-18 for the Third Annual Cleve­land American Indian Center Pow Wow held at the Cayahoga Com­
munitv College gymnasium. 
The 3-day event concluded Sun­day night with the awarding . of $3 000 in cash prizes and trophies to ' dancers of all ages in eight categories. . 
Singers Buffy Sainte-mane, Floyd Westerman and Shannon Two Fea­thers opened the Powwow with a contemporary Indian concert. The three entertainers also appeared on a city TV interview show to perform and comment on Indian life. today. . 
The Cleveland American Indian Center, host to the event, provided in-city transportation and two meals daily to guests, and co-ordina~ed accommodations for the substantial number of incoming participants. 
A highlight of the 3-day Poww_ow was all-night singing and dancrng at the city's Edgewater Park over­looking Lake Erie from midnight to dawn Saturday to Sunday, for which members of the Cleveland City Police Force provided ~ro­tection and permitted only Indians or whites accompanied by Indians to enter the park. 
Fifty-five entrants competed for Straight Dance, Men's Fancy Dance, Jr. Fancy Dance, and Boys' Open Dance; Women's Shawl Dance, Wo­men's Traditional Dance, Young Women's Dance, and Girls' Open Dance. Top winners were: Mr. and Mrs. Tyrone Head of Rosebud, 
s. D. Youngest entrant was Eric Parker, 2, Choctaw, son of _Mr. and Mrs. John Parker of Washrng­ton, D. C. Three circles of singers provided a continuing round of In­dian so..:..n~g_s_._______ 

• •Take a l etter and watch the · · h h?' 9
the puncuation this time, u. 
1hough ts at Random 
THE FORKED 


TONGUE 
s:,,o:; EY S I LENT FOX ( S IOUX ) 
The Saga of the Forked is a long and painful one. again we hear of the broken mises made to the Indians of erica. 
Sixty-one years ago, the f government and the state of rado entered into an agree whereby the government would to the state of Colorado 6, o the most choice San Juan mo acres ·in exchange for the s Colorado's promise to provide tion-free admission to a s proposed for that area. 
Let it be known that that ment was honored far longer the usual period. Factually, agreement was honored until fall (1970). It doesn't matter a very limited number of I students were permitted to e in the Ft. Lewis College, a state-supported educational tution. Or so we are led to lieve. Last year however, students than were expected and the school promptly cu tuition wavers at 200 studen 
Many protests were lodged the unfair practice and in res the Colorado attorney general, 
W. Dunbar ruled that since college had been moved 15 . away from the original s1 Durango, the state no longer a legal obligation to the In Here again it doesn't matter the original Ft. Lewis college is now a state experimental s Or so we are told. 
Some hope is in the offing, ever. 
A bill is now pending befo Colorado State Legislature _to establish tuition-free educati. Colorado Indians who live vicinity of Ft. Lewis Colleg 
we believe that the agree should be made legal and bi to reinstate the original con between the federal gover d the state of Colorado, an American Indians. 



Tribal Council of Calif­~ntehr-named George Ef fman as
ia as . 
new Executive Duect_or. M~. . a native Cal1forn1a
8 

rr~an ~rom the Karok Klamath 
I l n A former ITCC Community1 ni.zation Specialist, Mr. Effman d to more than double t?e
1 
opp membership in the ITCC 1n pa t year. 
rban Indian Centers Organization Proposed 
LE ELAND, OHIO (AIPA): A onal organization of urban In­n centers with a single head­rters to co-ordinate activities, r rams and solicitation of funds proposed by Russell Means, cutive director, Cleveland Indian n r . Such an organization would n lines of communication be­n reservation and off-reser­on Indians and dispel the con­t that current divisions among i n nationwide originate in a r o er money," said Russell 
n . The "misconception" that m rican Indians were "involved over finances among m el es" could be laid at the t o the BIA said Means. "Cer­n BIA people in the field have h ld on certain leaders on the he stated, "and talk like this gets Our problems are not of money but problems 
communications. " at is needed among all In­
an effective communi­on ystem," he said. "With ccess of urban Indians to the 
~ and the voting non-Indian
11 
th

~' ey are. in a real position 
reservation Indians. There no natural estrangement between 
m, but the
other Y mus! und~rstand better. Right now it's
1
Ure of communication. Any n ement we are experiencing
now · d
Oph. is ue to geographical ies rather than to any 
1 71 
ideology." 
Means commended the AIPA news service as a "step in the right direction" for communication among Indians, and envisioned a nation­wide radio network system for all Indian people with instantaneous transmission of news affecting their rights, communities, and life. 
Means urged the establishment of a National Indian Board of In­quiry as a watchdog organization over federal, state and city govern­ment and the BIA. This would be "made up of Indians from all strata of Indian life-reservation peoples, urban peoples, reservation and ur­ban leaders, and just plain old scalers. " The Board would employ concerted power to scrutinize con­gressional and judicial actions af­fecting Indian peoples. 
Principal areas of co-ordination under a national organization of urban centers would lie in edu­cational programs in traditional Indian culture, said Means. "What is overwhelming is when you dis­cover your own history and. find out how beautiful you are as a people. And this is the foremost need of Indians in the Cities." 
Tribal Chairmen's Conference Held 
PIERRE, S. D. (AIPA) : A 3-day Tribal Chairmen's Conference held here April 22-24 failed in its bid for overwhelming initial support. Only 38 delegates out of an ex­pected 53 from participating tribes were present. 
Roger Jourdain, Chippewa, was not present as he wasn't allowed on the plane enroute to Pierre by a stewardess. She assumed he was carrying a bomb in a tube. It was really an old Indian map he was taking to the meettng in Pierre. 
The committee, according to Peter MacDonald, Navajo tribal chairman, is the first of three committees to be formed to advise the BIA at its three levels of operation, central office .in Washing­ton, area office level, and terri­tory agency level. . 
National Tribal Chairman's As­
sociation (NTCA) was formed to 
insure proper representation of 
federally recognized tribes, both 
land based tribes and those with­
out a land base. 
The resolution called for a con­
stitutional convention to be held 
within 60 days of the Pierre meet­ing (April 22-24). A convention site was not determined but a spokesman for NTCA said that, since the convention will be hosted by the Navajo and Mescalero tribes, it will be held either in Window Rock, Arizona, or in Albuquerque, New Mexico. 
Highlights of the proposed NTCA constitution and by-laws i~clude: 
* 
Provide, improve and direct meaning­ful consultation between the federal govern­ment and the reservation Indian, including federally recognized Indian tribes (without a land base). 

* 
Direct and administer federal pro­grams, funds, and efforts to aid reser­vation Indians. 

* 
Approve proposed Indian policies and programs before they are implemented by the agencies of the federal government. 

* 
Demand that Indian people receive first priority on all federally funded pro­grams. 

* 
Insure that the historic trust relation­ship between the federal government and reservation Indians, including federally recognized Indian tribes, is not modified and not terminated. 

* 
Demand that every federal agency recognize the Indian population for whom the government has trust responsibility arising from congressional legislation, executive order, judicial decisions and treaties unique to Indian tribes. 

* 
Employ treaty rights and privileges, for the promotion and protection of the human and natural resources of Indian territories or groups. 

* 
Cultivate relationship among Indian territories, as well as with their duly elected leadership based on respect for the principle of equal rights and self­determination. 

* 
Represent territories and federally recognized tribes and demand that prior consultation by the U.S. Government, as expressed by President Nixon in his July 8, 1970, message to Congress, becomes a fact. 

* 
Continue to support, promote and complement the National Congress of American Indians. 

* 
Keep all Indians, including federally recognized Indian tribes and elected of­ficials, apprised on policies and .programs that the association acts upon or becomes aware of. 



Agnew Appoints Nine 
WASHINGTON, D. C.-Vice Presi­dent Agnew has appointed nine members to a special Indian Educa­tion subcommittee within the Na­tional Council on Indian Oppor­tunity. 


So You Think You Know About Indio ns? 
So you think you Know something about Indians? That's because you haven't taken the Indian Perception Balance Test. 
The test was written by Indians and it is designed to show how little is known about them. 
Dennis Banks, a Chippewa and official of the AIM (American In­dian Movement) in Minneapolis, explains that Indians are required to learn about white heroes and what they are taught in schools is white-oriented. 
.The test is obviously the Indians' way of striking back and it proves a point. Here are a few of the multiple-choice questions: 
Reservation means: 
a) 
Home. 

b) 
Place for animals. 

c) 
Place for humans. 

d) 
Hotel/airplane space. 



Are you getting the idea? Then try this one. Scalp hunting was introduced by the: 
a) 
French 

b) 
British 

c) 
Colonists 

d) 
Indians 



And chew on these awhile: 
Sitting Bull was: 
a) 
Teton Sioux 

b) 
Ogalala Sioux 

c) 
Chippewa 

d) 
Comanche 

U. 
S. treaties with American Indians are : 

a) 
Honored 

b) 
Ignored 

c) 
Worthless 

d) 
Deceiving 


Kinni-anik means: 
a) 
Outside 

b) 
Breakfast 

c) 
Tobacco 

d) 
Come here 


Custer: 
a) 
Was massacred 

b) 
Committed suicide 

c) 
Died in honor defending this country 

d) 
Was defeated by military tactics 


Invasion by military troops means: 
a) 
Killing 

b) 
Peace 

c) 
Love 

d) 
Friends 



Pioneers and settlers explor­ing the west meant: 
a) 
Building this country 

b) 
Discovering this continent 

c) 
A new frontier 

d) 
Killing Indians 


Indian Country is: 
a) 
A reservation 

b) 
Old Oklahoma Territory 

c) 
Stereotype term 

d) 
The U.S. A. 


How you doing so far? There are also questions on the number of Indian reservations in the U.S. ; the number of treaties negotiated with Indian tribes; and questions on Indian language. 
And then there is a list of 63 Indian heroes. Your job is to list the tribes they came from. Some of the heroes: Joseph Brandt, Red Cloud, Roman Nose, Geronimo, Black Hawk, Sitting · Bull, Chief Joseph, William Fuller, John Ross, Cochise, High Wolf and Jim Thorpe. How would you like to tackle that? 
Coal Mining Threat To Indian Country 
You don't have to be an expert or a scientist · to see ecological threats on Black Mesa. For open­ers, there is a 50-to-100-foot wide, and 15-mile-long scar (some­times called a road) built by Pea­body that has destroyed many hun­dreds of acres of one of the most healthy and beautiful cedar forests in the Navajo nation. 
At the mine, tall, awkward ma­chines and sliced mountains look down on black, polluted streams flowing southward into -large, ugly cesspools. 
The coal is shipped to power plants like the one near Shiprock which pours more ash on Navajo­land in one day than the amount of ash that is deposited on Los Angeles and New York in 24 hours. 
Furthermore, the power from those plants travels in huge power lines through the heart of the Na­vajo nat_i_o_n_.________ 
How often have we pondered the 
-
questions, "How did it happen?" "What caused the different head­dresses and wearing apparel of the True Native Americans to evolve?" The facts were that more than just for beautyi the different cos­tumes resulted from studies and adaptation to living involvement. 
The Native American was sod involved with his surroundings he came to believe in the and mysterious beauty of his mother-the living land. 
So deeply was the American dian' s belief and love for his that he came to the beautiful wondrous realization that here was his maker, his belief convictions. After all, what is ligion if it is not the convi that an omnipotent power lives governs our very existence? 
Just as naturally, the Indian by his adaptation of clothing. people living in the deep w areas of the Eastern sections this great continent, developed a headdress, a small forelock hair and single feather. His . ing was done exclusively in confines of interlaced tree bran and deep underbrush. An elabo headdress would surely have· disastrous in such surroundi In the winter a thick short pelt from a rabbit or coon bee his protection from the cold. 
Huntsmen of the great pl country developed an entirely ferent headdress. Somewhere in the dim ages, a hunter no that deer and antelope were cur animals. He noted further that flapping of a dead leaf on a pr bush or weed seemed to a rather than frighten the deer especially the antelope. The h wrapped a band around his to keep his vision unobstruc In that headband he placed a ther. Standing stock-still in sight of the game, the hunter the wind blow his feathers. Cl and closer the antelope e cautiously, curiously. Suddenl single shaft from the hunter's and the hapless animal dropp the feet of the surprised man. 
This started a never ending e lution of American Indian costu The leathern jacket and breeo with fringes were very functi The fringe strips were very ful. To tie or secure an ar spearhead, or maybe mend a in his costume, the ·man me plucked a fringe strand from sleeve or breeches and perfor the repair. 
Prairie Man of the plains In and ol' Henry Chosa of the w and l.akes region were the source of data for the Fox. T is a world of little known da such things available. readers of the Indian more of-this type of 


WHERE DID THE INDIANSCO~E FROM? 
by DARIO WAYNE SUNDOWN (Cree, 
ople have· tried to explainMny perigin of North America'st?8. ~s Among the earliest b()rriigitsn w~re Puritan clergym~n
O S ­
e pronouncements ·now .seem. ~ uiously quaint. Latest mter-. 
ridiC ·d "bl
tions have be~n ~a e possi e P e of ·the Atomic Age. Even 

C US · 
the mystery is nq_t cleated up. 'otton Mather, a noted Puritan roan of early New. Eng;and,
1 
c lie ed that Indians were in~eigled the Americas by the :d~vil. T_o
0
him, it was logic that the _devil 
ould cunningly try to establish a of people "beyond the tinkle 0 pel bells. " Roger Williams, of the radical, liberal thinkers bi day, believed that Indians re survivors of the Great Flood oah's time. Another theory, li bed in 1828 by a London cl man, was that the Indians re direct descendants of the ten 
lo t" tribes of Israel. 

odern scientists are less arbi­
' although they tend to sup­rt the proposition that the New orld was not inhabited by man 
n 1 after the Ice Age. As .cer­
n ice sheets receded, the Indi­migrated from Asia, crossing Bering Strait which was then ck of solid land. Most author­
believe this migration oc­about 15,000 to 20,000 o; a few, such as Flint 
estimated the Indians could made the trek during one of e eral interglacial periods 
r ps as early as 60 000 year~
o. t 
development of the ou. carbon 14 test, a means hich the approximate age of r· • bone, and other organic ma­1 ~an be judged, archaeolo­
ir f ;e been able to subject ;n 8 to more exacting scru­0 0 • ests have already revealed 
In oneno~ble and interesting facts. 

o r im;stance, spearheads and rth ements discovered near id u_r, Ontario, were found 
n tnd~cal in form with Great lil ings whi h h d 
e-readi c a a carbon en dete°: ?f 9_' 000 years. It on drifts h mmed that the popu­ad reached the -south­
197 1 


Forrest ~-;rard 
Forrest .Gerard, Blackfeet has been hired a~ professi~nal staff member for the Senate Interior Committee to handle Indian legislation. Mr. Gerard previously worked in the Public Health Service, was legislative 
liaison officer for the BIA in Washington, and recently was director of the Indian Projects 0 f f i c e i n HEW. 
Native American Pooulation Increases 
WASHINGTON, D. C. (AIPA): The Indian population increased by more than 50% during the 1960's, ac­cording to the U. S. Census Bureau. The preliminary 1970 census count shows 791,839 Native Americans compared to 523,591 in 1960. 
Oklahoma leads in population figures with 97, 731, followed by Arizona with 95,812; California, 91,018; New· Mexico, 72,788; and North Carolina, 43,487. 
RELOCA TI ON JOE 

"They have a thing called 'EASY CREDIT' ~ollowed closely by a thing cal Jerl 'REPOSSESSION'.'" 


THE CONQUEST OF ABORIG I NAL LANDS : PART v11 
THE OHIO VALLEY EXPLOITATION 
by RUDY JAY CASAZZA 
( SEN EC A) 
the smashing defeat given by the Indians to St. Clair was too public, too crushing to be hidden from the press or forgotten. There were the usual demands. The out­come was that St. Clair was al­lowed to resign,-and Congress passed a militia act under which all free white males between the ages of eighteen and forty-five had to enlist. Congress by-passed the dominant states' rights issue by creating a Federal Force called -a Legion. The Legion was co~posed of four sub-legions, each having two infantry battalions, one rifle battalion, a troop of cavalry (w~ch Congress called dragoons), and an artillery company. All for the sole purpose of fighting the Indian. The selection of a Maj or General to command the force was, of course, political. This political plum went to the apple of the American Revolution, "Mad Anthony Wayne." The war having ended, he was out of a job, and was "overjoyed" to be back in the army. The General was no friend of the Indian. He had no patience with the road of treaty negotiations, or Indian accommodations. .It was his personal conviction that the Northwest Territory could not be secured for the white man until the Indians who occupied the lands were thoroughly subdued and re­moved. 
In 1792, the General took com­mand. He ruled with a firm heavy hand. When he learned that too great a supply of whiskey was entering his garrisons, he moved the entire Legion elsewhere! He ordered target practice in all kinds of weather, and worked out a plan by which the infantry and cavalry could work as a single unit. He traine·d his men to endure as much and as more than the Indian. He would not be another St. Clair. 
The General soon had his oppor­tunity for combat. In 1793, the new government would not agree to the terms it established in the treaty at Standwix in 1768. · At the council in Sandusky on July 31st, the government refused to agree to the boundary of the Ohio f1:'on­tier. It was the same old story­greed for more land. The Indians would not give in to a new treaty establishing a new boundary. Thus began the first of many to come, treaty disregard and violations by the Federal Government in its dealings with its aboriginals. The Federal Government refused to back its original treaty. Chiefs and commissioners went home in mu­tual recrimination. It was to be war! 
The season was winter, and much too late in the year for a military campaign. The General moved his legion to a site he named Greeneville, in honor of 

his comrade-at-arms, General N thanael Greene. For some unkn reason, Little Turtle did not advantage of the desertions, re lious officers, and expiring enl ments which plagued the legi for by spring, the General his legion ready and· intact. Li Turtle now faced a commander equal. 
The chief tested the strength the new legion. It was costly the Indians. Assessing its lea ship, and realizing the outco the chief thought it better to s peace. He argued this point council, and the war might been avoided if he had been liste. to. The young chiefs would listen; they accused the aged c of absorbing too much of the w man's ways. They not only ov, ruled him on the question: of to fight Mad Anthony Wayne; they deposed him, and appoi chief Turkey Foot as his succes 
The battle began in early mo ing and lasted tlie day. Tu Foot discovered his captured c nons had been recovered, but termined to battle without the nons, and moreover, without definite plan of battle. Hour hour the Indian lost gr ound men. It was Turkey Foot who tacked, but the general was longer on the defensive-he was the offensive. He marched · men ·out of Fort Recovery, headed for Fort Miami, the Bri stronghold. By mid-August the eral had reached an area w because of some previous tor would forever be known as F Timbers·. Here the gener al pl 


a strategy which 

. g game, . F 

del yin d the Indians. or confuse Turkey .Foot and .his days, Blue Jacket, waited 
rdinate, al to attack. In the 
gener 1 

e of the third day, Mn~ar ! . s left for Fort iam1. 1 300 1nd1;°dians and some sixty 
OO ~ 1 ·tary-men were left to m und on the morn-the gr~ zoth the general, 
Augu: himse•lf informed of ke~overnents, attacked. 

sabers' the army rode '10;1°1ndians and chased them ~ 1iarni, where, much to 
or t ru·shment the British had ' • · th
the gates agamst em. perfidy proved again !he value 'bite man's promises. It t \~1atter to the British that promised the Indians the of the fort; challenged by •on the British abandoned
1 
ndi,an allies, and violated treaty. Trapped between the 
. . 

nd the saber swmgmg m~n, remained of the small Indian wa virtually dissolved. In than two hours the Battle of F Hen Timbers was over. Not \ ith a victory of battle perfidy of the British, Mad Anthony Wayne set 
ranging over the countryside, every Indian village be­n Toledo and Cincinnati, Ohio, troying some 5, 000 acres 
of crops. 
homes burned, crops de­men slaughtered, was humiliated into orced treaty in which was given vast land of what is now te of Ohio, and much of the 
tate of Indiana. new government had doubled in territory, and would 
03) compound its size with Louisiana Purchase. Both Russia claimed lands hin the \ estern boundary of the ation, and because of Cali­and all lands southwest 
from the Rio Grande, Spain al O enter into the dispute
In th . 
e e disputes among the 
European powers for lands 
'e\ World, the voice of O\ ner, the Indian Voice to be heard at all· yet'
h ' 

ian ad no intention of per­lbemselves to be subdued 
overru b 
n y a foreign power. alley had not fully been 

from th I ct· 
. e n ian, when-pre­
1 . ta~ce by tribes west of 1PP1 forecast bitter con-
come. 
r·, 1111 1nw

•· ~ nPx l month) 
197 1 



DAVID CHAVERS (Lumbee) 
ONCE DESCRIBED AS 'AN ISLAND OF OF FOREST AND GRASS IN THE DESERT', 
THE  BLACK  MESA,  HOMELAND  OF  THE  HOPI  
AND  THE  NAVAJO,  IS  BEING  STR1P  MINED  
FOR  COAL.  

THE RESULTING INEVITABLE CHRONIC DAMAGE TO THE LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES OF THIS AREA REACHES CATASTROPHIC PROPORTIONS! 
Peabody Coal Company, in conjunction with 23 electric power companies, the Department of the Interior, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the Hopi and Navajo tribal councils, is in the process of destroying the land base, the water resources, and the mineral rights of the Hopis and the Navajos. 
This alliance is not destroying all these things without a · reason. They are doing it for money­the millions to be made from electric power for the cities of the Southwest over the next 35 years. 
In 1966 Peabody leased 64, 858 acres of land from the Hopi and Navajo tribal councils, under terms of a 99-year lease, to strip mine coal from Black Mesa. The land, which is partly Hopi and partly Navajo, is religious land for both tribes. Today Peabody is mining this coal to supply two power plants already in operation, one at Page, Arizona, and the other at Mojave, Nevada, near the California border. 
The Hopis and Navajos are being cheated in three ways: (1) they will receive only 2% of the mqney from the coal development, · a giveaway pushed by the ·Bureau of Indian Affairs and other government agencies, (2) the water for the coal mining oper­ation threatens to wipe out much of the agriculture and large parts of Navajo land, and (3) the pollution from these plants (one of which is on the Navajo reservation) is more than that produced by the whole city of Los Angeles! 
10 
• .PRICE
0 25 ~ 7J.
POWER STATIONS MIUS .
¦ 
NAVAJO INDIAN RESERVATION BOUNDARY 
-
u T A H 
On the first point, several members of the t councils have stated that they in effect sig blank check when they signed the leases with body in 1966. There was already some coal going on in the area, and they had no idea Black Mesa mining would be so large. They also stated that the terms of the contracts filled ·in later, and they did not know what were signing. They were told nothing, so they tricked again by the BIA. 
Secondly, the coal mining operation is a to the ~raditional life in the area, and is a range threat to the whole population of the sta .Arizona. To get the coal from the mine to Moj a distance of 275 miles, Peabody built an u ground pipeline to slurry the coal. The coal the mine will be crushed and mixed with w then pumped through the pipeline · the whole wa 
But to get the water, Peabody has drilled deep wells 4,000 feet below the surface. The t to the Hopi and Navajo is that this robbing of water will lower the water table so that they not be able to farm or -graze animals where have been for hundreds of years. 
Third, the pollution from one plant will be tons of ash each day! This is almost aR 
pollution  as  both  New  York  and  Los  Angeles  
duce  a  day.  
According to Peabody  officials, they  


of coal' trom Black Mesa in the next his coal will bring in somewhere close ·million. The Navajos ;md Hopis combined 
only about $30 million for their share.. Iurry operation will take about one-half m1l­r -feet of water a year, when combined with lino-\ ater from the Page plant. This is a 
rt of the total water supply for the state nz na, which is only 9. 9 million acre-feet per rom all sources. 
1 t figure comes from a report by the nc:.........house Electric Corporation of Baltimore, which in nc d by the Department of Housing and 11 I \ clopment. It was published in 1969, and m amazing facts about the future of Ari­p aking of Black Mesa, it says "The sand­
unit yield small amounts of water in the l a area, which is the sole supply for hools and trading posts." (p. 3-36) 
also states that "Sediments in the al­
luvial desert basins constitute large storage areas for groundwater... which have enabled man to live prosperously and comfortably in ·these deserts, al­though• continual withdrawal of these reserves has seriously depleted them. In the lower Santa Cruz basin and in several areas near Phoenix, the water level has dropped over 200 feet in the last twenty years. Replenishment of natural recharge is a small 
fraction  of  the  amount  withdrawn,  which  makes  
pumping  at  present  rates  a  depletiorJ.,  or  mining  
process."  (p.  3-29)  

In other ·words, as the report makes clear, the city of Phoenix and the state of Arizona are run­ning out of water. "The total water supply availa­bility for Arizona includes ground water which has been developed to yield quantities approaching 5 mil­lion acre feet per year from wells. Recent esti­mates of surface wabff supplies indicate 2. 6 million acre-feet are utilized annually. Arizona is consum­
( Continued on page eighteen) 


Steam shovel stripping earth to expose coal. 

F
or many years the word "Comanche" meant terror on the :rexas frontier. In early 19th century, Comanche Indians had been generally friendly to Americans, but they became bitter enemies of the Texas settlers who took over their best buffalo hunting grounds. 
Wildest and fiercest of Comanches was the Kwahadi band. In 1835, Kwahadis attacked a small settlement in east Texas and carried away several captives, among them a little girl, Cynthia Ann Parker, then about 10 years old. Cynthia grew up to marry Nokoni, a Comanche chieL Their oldest son, born about 1845, . was Quanah Parker, who, in Comanche tradition, was given his mother's surname. 
Quanah grew up with the savage Kwahadi Comanches, and when his father died, he became the tribe's new chief, a tribute to the young man's ability and intelligence, since chieftainships were not ordinarily in­herited among the Comanches. 
Fights with the Comanches were an almost everyday occurrence to settlers on the plains of west Texas; and Indian attacks on travel­ers were a constant danger. The 1867 Medi­cine Lodge Treaty had assigned Comanches, Kiowas, Kiowa-Apaches, Cheyennes, and Ara­pahoes to reservations. But Parker and his band, who had refused to sign, continued to hunt buffalo on the Plains and to plunder settlements along the Texas border. 
In the early 1870's, when white hunters illegally invaded Indian country and slaugh­tered vast numbers of buffalos to collect hides, Parker's fury reached its peak. Hav­ing mustered about 700 warriors from among the Comanches, Cheyennes, and Kiowas, in June of 187 4 he attacked the post at Adobe Walls, where some 30 buffalo hunters were 
quartered. But the fort's thick walls 
superior ammunition were · too much for Indian braves, who were forced to wit with severe losses after 3 days of fighting. 
Most Comanche •aggression came to an when U.S. Army troops were sent into dian country. Parker, however, continued remain on the Staked Plains with his · until the summer of 1875, when he rendered. 
As other leaders before him, Parker dreamed of an alliance-this time of Pl Indian tribes-which would be strong en to resist the inroads of white settle Once having surrendered his dream, howe he changed his point of view completely, resolved to adjust to the dominant ci zation. "I can learn the white man's wa he said, and he did. 
Parker was still young, and his real reer, which was to be long and distinguis started at that point. He influenced even wildest of the Comanche bands to come southwestern Oklahoma reservations, and at last came to the Texas plains. 
For the next 30 years, Parker acted the industrious and able leader of a federation of Comanches, Apaches, and was. He was their most able and influe businessman, and their guide to white c lization. The once-savage warrior made cation popular, encouraged home-building agriculture, and initiated the leasing of plus pasture lands for Indian income. ways, however, he held fast to traditio important Indian beliefs and cererno 
Quanah Parker, the most esteemed I of his tribe, died in 1911, at about 76. 1957, he was reburied in the post cerne at Fort Sill, Okla. , with military hono 


~uanah Parker. From an 1892 photo made when the Comanche leader was about 57 years 
d. Photo: Smithsonian Institution. 

1 3 
PICTOGRAPH 






TWO BOWS 
a 

native 
I

amer1can tradesman 
by SMOKEY SILENT FOX 
( S I OU X ) 


t
his is the story of Two Bows, a native American tradesman, who lived on the great prairie long before the White Man was known or ever heard about. 
Two Bows told of his trading journey in a most beautiful manner-Picture Writing on a buffalo calf hide. Let the Fox interpret the story for those of us who have not had the opportunity to learn the picture writing method. 
If you will note, the story begins in the center of the picture and progresses in counterclockwise rotation. Follow the series of events as they unfold 
throughout  the  story.  
Two  Bows,  an  Indian  trader  of  the  great central  
plains,  departed  on  an- official  trading  trip.  

Two Bows traveled on foot for three moon-lights (nights) until he came to a river. The first part of his trip was through enemy lands, thus his reason for traveling at night. At the river, Two Bows obtained a canoe and prepared for his trip on the water. He camped that night on the river bank and at sunrise the following morning, he started down the river. Two Bows traveled during the sun-light (day) because he was now in friendly territory. 
Being an Indian trader, Two Bows intended to trade his pemmican and a few rare furs for shells which were used for wampum (money) and for orna­mentation of clothing and possessions. 
After five sun-lights (days) of travel on the river, Two Bows arrived at th~ friendly village where he was to trade for the shells. He rested for three day-lights (days) in conference with the village Chief. 

He traded nis pemmican and furs 
of river shells and was pleased. 
At sunrise on the morning of the fourth sun­Two Bows loaded his precious 'cargo of shells his canoe and departed for his home village. the second sun-light, a violent storm engulfed and the river country. There was rain, wind, much lightning. Two Bows saw a bolt of lig strike a river bank tree, setting the tree on Because of the . storm and the wind, Two Bows came quite sick. He beached his canoe in a tected spot and searched the area for me herbs. Two Bows prepared the herbs and ad stered to his well'-being, resting on the for two days. 
From this point on, Two Bows was in e territory so he shouldered his cargo, walked d moon-light, and hid during the sun-light. T he traveled at moon-light, Two Bows knew that country abounded with much wild game.. He heat the talk of the Fox and the arguments of wolves as the wild brothers coursed over the 1 
After many sun-lights and many more moon-I' Two Bows finally reached his home village. T braves of his village came out to receive hiIIl eluding his chief, Bear-With-Torn-Ear. All were most happy as a result of Two Bows' cessful trip. A great sociable ·time of telling·s and a recounting of the trip followed. The v· 
was most happy.
--~--,........a--=-------------­



md1an plantmg 
d. farmers plant and
In 1an h
rding to the rhyt ms t acco sun and planets. All 
rnoon, 1 th t

and leafy vegetab es a n the ground are planted
bove 
.1 11
full of the moon wh1 e a that grow beneath the ground d in the dark of the 
plante d h t

He also plants an arves s 0 ~op following tp.e same pat­th ebb and flow of the rn thou h he is . hund~eds of from it. It 1s said that affected by the gravity pull moon and the ebb and flow tide . This is not surpris­much of nature, including 
i comprised of more water ' h is aware of. uthings that have been created 
language of their own and c n, if he recognizes this b tween his Creator and r , communicate with all living rowing things. The Hopi blo Indians thought nothing of before dawn and running to the gardens to reach them th sun peeped over the on; _so as to be able to chant u tion to the dawn to give for their bountiful supply h was grown with love, and ration with the sky, the earth man , who made it possible given the power to keep 
rhythm of nature in tune. b Indian Pueblo dweller always , nd many still do, ceremonies 
r Y r and chants before, dur­nd fter planting. To them eed. are the beginning and of life. First the earth is ed, forgiveness is asked of r earth for disturbing her hen care is taken to plant uch seeds as are blessed 
pra ed upon. They are then nderl in the soil. e t time is a community
t
nd 
the sharing with others hortunate and unable to fend emsel es· It is also the 
0~ prayers and thanksgiving 

Clal ti ' 
· me for joy and ex-ion of gratitude to the Great 
r of all 1·
rn ife. The -crafts 
h 1 
a?ts made at such a time ifsua1 Prayers, while the eff~r/ he food· is the com­of man, the earth, 


,'.
¼ff
~-~ 
water and air. The main creative force behind it all being the be­nevolent blessings of the Most­Ancient-One. 
To the Indian, his basket has the same symbol and meaning as our "Horn of Plenty." But, he has his own interpretation. When man walks in courage, truthfulness, honesty and sincerity, he is like the upright basket that can hold the fruits of the harvest and share the blessings. But when he strays and is not trustworthy, honest or reliable, as the basket turned over, he is empty and useless. 

crucial issues" of the legislation. He expressed fears of direct peril to certain existing programs under the bill's current provisions relat-. ing to P. L. 874. He supported the concept of the National Board and suggested its placement under the Interior Department apart from the BIA and the Bureau of Land Management. 
Kennedy  assured  witnesses  that  
immediate  rewriting  of  the  bill  
would be undertaken to  assure  that  

no existing funds for programs under P. L. 874 would be lost. 
Donald E. Morrison (National Education Assn. ) stated the NEA "does not support this legislation in whole or in part if it is not approved by the majority of Indian peoples." Given that approval, Morrison said, the -NEA desired refinements concerning the -defi­nition of "Indian," guarantees that no funding would be lost under current programs, and the placing of the National Board under the OE. He recommended retrainil'lg of Civil Service teachers at federal expense and a program of teacher transfers for new federal employ­ment. 
John Rainer (NCAI) expressed fears that the bill was "tetmination in disguise, " and supported a "re­vamped and revitalized Bureau with increased funding.·" Mondale stated that the newly formed National Tribal Chairmen's Assn. had ex­pressed total support for the bill. 
(Later, a retraction was entered on the record after onlookers in the gallery discussed the misstate­ment of fact and a memorandum was submitted to the senator. ) 
A Minnesota delegation consisting of Gerald Buckanaga, Ruth Myers and Ted Mahto cited the "insensi­tivity gap between white and red America," the "morass of white tape" entwining educational inno­vations, and urged the reinforce­ment of BIA programs. 
Lee Sclar (California Indian Legal Services) supported use of the U.S. Census definition of Indians for e~ucational applicants and equitable distribution of funds throughout the school system for both reservation and off-reservation Indians. 
Calling current educational pro­grams a "passport out of the In­dian world and Indian identity," three spokesmen for the National Indian Youth Council demanded In­dian control of BIAboarding schools; increased authority in education for tribal leaders, retention of edu­cation within the BIA and further investigation into allegations of mis­treatment of students at Inter­mountain School in Brigham City, utah. 
Dennis Banks (American Indian Movement) supported a National Board "separate and equal to the Office of Education" which would be placed in the' executive under the President to eliminate the BIA's "multiple-client· relationship subject to conflict of interest." 
Dillon Platero (Navaho Education Assn.) supported the creation of a National Board with safeguards provided in the event of disputes between the National Board and ~he proposed position of Deputy Commissioner under OE. 
Richard Schifter (Association on American_ Indian . Affairs) called a Board separate from the BIA "most desirable" suggesting placement of the Board under HEW, and urging Board powers to fire unacceptable teachers through suspension of Civil Service regulations. 
A day of additional hearings­Thursday, May 6-was scheduled by Kennedy in order to hear the voice of tribal leaders on the proposed legislation. 
Opinion is sought on two parti­cular que~tions: 
1. 
Establishment of Indian identi­ty to satisfy requirements for coverage under the bill. 

2. 
Placement of _the proposed National Board of Indian Education either outsid.e or within Bureau of Indian Affairs supervision. 


Today, in the hills of the Great 

Smoky Mountains of Tennessee and North Carolina live the Eastern Cherokees. There they still prac­tice their native handicrafts and tribal rituals. In terms of West­ern Civilization, the Eastern Chero­kees were never as advanced as their cousins to the West, but they have always lived as they wished and have r emained free. This continuous tribal integrity and personal freedom was attained at a price, but perhaps in terms of what other peoples have paid, it was a small price. 
For more than a decade the Cherokee Nation had fought within the framework of the United States legal system to prevent the unjust removal of their people from Georgia and Tennessee. But with the determined power of President Jackson and the State of Georgia against them, it was soon obvious that the Cherokee people would have to leave their homes in a forced migration to the West. In 1835 the Treaty of New Echota was signed by a few individuals falsely claiming to represent the Cherokee Nation, and by 1838 the Federal government began the actual Indian removal known as "The Trail of Tears" which would cost the lives of 4, 000 Cherokee men, women and children. 
On May 8, 1838 , Major General Winfield Scott assumed the com­mand of five regiments of regular troops and some 4,000 militia and volunteers. He then warned the Cherokee people that resistance would be futile and that they were 
by ROBERT ANDREW MEIGS (Ch er o kee-Choe t aw) 
hopelessly outnumbered. He then warned his own men that any despi­cable individual who caused or inflicted injury or insult on any Cherokee man, woman, or child would be consigned to the severest penalty of the laws. 
But most of Scott's troops were from the States that wanted · the Cherokee moved as soon as pos­sible without regard to the basic considerations of human treatment. The stories of the atrocities com­mitted against the Cherokee people as they were driven from their homes and herded into prison stock­ades are countless. In a period of days, 17,-000 people had been rounded up and crowded into the stockades to await removal. 
But not all of the Cherokees had been rounded up. Many fled to the hills to join the more "primitive" element known as the Mountain Cherokees. These Indians had an advantage over the soldiers in that their homes were so remote that they might be taken by. Scott's troops only at a great price to the soldiers. After having rounded up nine-tenths of the Cherokee people in such a short time, the troops saw no reason to use discretion in the handling of such a small number. 
Two soldiers assaulted a young Cherokee woman who defended her­self with a hatchet. She killed both of the soldiers. A relative of hers, a Mountain Cherokee named Tsali, took the weapon and assumed the responsibility of the soldiers' death. · Hiding the hatchet under his shirt, Tsali fled to the 
hills to avoid_ capture. 
When Maj or General Scott of the incident, he served n that he could not allow the of two of his soldiers to re unpunished. He demanded a s goat from the Cherokees or Tsali's band of Cherokees real reason to fear Scott's soldiers since they lived in these hills for ages. knew also that Scott himself not want to get bogged down endless guerrilla war like struggle with the Seminoles Florida swamps. 
The end result might have another long and costly wa the United States with mer and exaggerated revenge di against the Indians had not a trader named William Thomas suaded the Councils of Tsali's to consider taking advan Scott's predicament. Tsali, brother, and his oldest son volunteered to sacrifice their if Scott would allow the M Cherokees to remain in their homeland. 
Maj or General Scott accep offer and promised to urge W ton to recognize Cherokee ti their homes in the moun When Tsali turned himself o the troops, he, his .brother oldest son were executed firing squad composed of Che riflemen. 
Eventually, the Cherokees granted the title Scott pro them and they have r emai their hills to this day-their the gift of Tsali' s sacrifice 


fearful of losing our Indian cul­·tage through education in the white
nd hen J . 
. rtutions. It is not necessary. om an ~~~re group, participate in its activi~ies, tribal history and teach other Indians
n
our o, . . 

ribal heritage. In this fashion, we can never our Jndianness. 
Self I must state: I've been away from 

F r my ' I ·11
tribe for almost 30 years. w1 never 0 fn t my native Chippewa language-I make 
r or . ch· I'
actice to say my prayers m 1ppewa. m pr hristian. I was raised as Catholic and left l"ci m at age 14. Thanks to my unquenchable0 1 for knowledge through reading, I became a r Indian-a real one. Gone is the sense of ilt that was imposed on me by priests and -I m FREE AT LAST. Each waking day I th Great Spirit in a blade of grass, in sun­n in the wind murmuring through the trees, in ~ that only He can understand and wipe away. 
b k can ever tell me of the Great Spirit. are my views and convictions. Therein lief. He 1 the Great Spirit, is all around 
They're linally letting Indians portray Indians 
"LITTLE BIG MAN, " dirt cttd by Arthur Penn, produced by Stuart Miller, screenplay by Calder Willingham, 


ltt,,.. Center Films, released by National General Pictures 

no accident of time that awareness of the genocide 
the American Indian peoples should begin to ble expression in our mass culture precisely when the genocide in Vietnam has beconir. incontro­facts of the brutal and deliberate policy of practiced by_ the U.S. ~ovemment against the 
~es ~ve been available for quite some time. And there en hist0rians to document the charges. 
b . 
. . Y een possible for general consciousness0 assurulate this knowledge into its perception of 
dd . 
a resses itself to an emerging emotional inju:~r cotntry · It evokes horror at the brutality and .0 the white_ man. It evokes sympathy for the pically romantic admiration for Indian culture and 
k ­
n evo e feelings of guilt on the part of some 

who may become aware of their. own unintentional complicity in the working out of the imperialist system. 
For all this, "Little Big Man" is an ambivalent work, suffering as much from its aesthetic uncertainties as from the limitations o~ its implicit liberal reformism. The film is constructed in the forrd of a tape-recorded interview with Jack Crabb, now 121 years old, who recounts the exploits of a long and varied life as "adopted" Indian, sod-buster, frontier store-keeper, snake oil salesman, gun-fighter, lover, drunkard, horse-wrangler in Custer's ill-fated army. and several other identities. 
Irwin Silber GUARDIAN 
14th ANNUAL 1971 


ALL-IN DIAN 
0 

SATURDAY at 1:30 SUNDAY at 2:00 



JUNE5&6 
White Swan, Wash. 
EVENTS 
SADDLE  BRONC  RIDING  TEAM ROPING  Special Events  
Entry FN $20 -Added Puru $200 WILD COW MILKING  Enter Twice ,::,';.":!i" $40 -Added PurM $100  HORSE  RACING  
Entry FH $20 -Added Purse $100 BARE BACK RIDING Entry F.. $20 -Added Pun• $100  BRAHMA BULL RIDING Entry F~7m~:~:. ~~d~1~:;M $100  INDIAN PARADE Kh>S SCRAMBLE  
CALF ROPING Entry FH $20 -Added PurM $lob  GIRLS' BARREL RACE EntryFee$10 -AddedPurwi$SO  WILD HORSE RACE  
-NEW COVERED GRAND STAND  - 

COWBOY DAHCE JUNE 4U AT COMMUNITY HALL -MUSIC BY WESTERN SWING BAND 
Mail Entries lo: Lester Lewis ENTRY DEADLINE 
BOX 271 or PHONE 874-4397 
June 3rd, 1971 -8:00 p.m.
White Swan, Washington 98952 Money Must Accompany Entry. No Personal Checks 
Yakima ln.dian Rod~o Association Not Responsible For Any Accidents 
ADMISSION $2.00 ADULTS -$1.00 STUDENTS -CHILDREN 12 & UNDER ADMITTED FREE 
When Auompanied By Parents 
SALMON BAKE (Sunday) -TEEPEE SHOW VILLAGE -INDIAN GAMES 
PUBLIC IS INVITED 
SPONSORED BY YAKIMA INDIAN RODEO ASSOCIATION 

Scene from "Little Big Man." 



full speed, there will be 375 Indians working 
mines,  and  22  working  on  the  pipeline.  The  
will  be  non-Indians.  
There  are  several  incidental  details.  The  

wells Peabody has drilled will take the water 4, 000 feet underground. · What will happen is rain water, which now remains close enough surface for vegetation to grow, will not stay at surface but will drain down to replace the taken out of the deep wells. When this ha there will be no more vegetation. 
The power plants can operate in Arizona Nevada because of the lack of pollution laws any teeth in these states. An official of one plants has stated that he wouldn't be allow operate the plant in southern California, the which gets all the benefits from it. 
The traditional leaders of the Hopi, who are posed to the BIA puppets on the tribal council been trying to stop the coal mining on Black' since the first operation started. They don't to have been very successful. Black Mesa i site of the sacred Hopi Female Mountain. The pets on the council have forgotten their rel and their Hopi traditions, and represent only 25% of the Hopis who are apple Indians-red outside and white on the inside. 
The Native American Rights Fund in Berkel in the Black Mesa fight now, as well as the Club. B_oth seem to be hampered by the iron nature of the power structure in the BIA, the of too many Hopis and Navajos, and the legal they have to wade through. 
There seems to be too much to worry about Black Mesa, to worry about the larger Four ners project, which includes the Black Mesa ations. But this larger project is being pus the Department of the Interior, HUD, the 23 companies, and Peabody Coal Company. All agencies can see the short-term economic be of development, but none of them seem to be ried about the future. Perhaps their attitude is they won't have to live in the future. But what we leave the children? 
(Note: The All-Pueblo Council, the Native A can Rights Fund, and the Sierra Club are spo ing a conference on Black Mesa at the Unive of New Mexico ·at Albuquerque, May 14-15-16. tact these organizations for more information.) 
IN IAN RECIPES0' 
2 tea-
warm 

r· u . r , alt and shortdenitg . dd hot water an s ~r
1 

b rtening is melted. Stir nour. Add yeast and up of flour. Mix well. 10 c r and work in enough n nour to make a soft b t does not stick to the -....o,.-'-=. Turn dough onto floured n kn ad for 100 strokes. into ball. Put into greased r · d urface with shorten­
• 1 , and let rise until rn bulk ( bout 1-1/2 hrs.). 
u rh do\ n and shape into b 11s. Roll each ball paper into disks or 
with beaten egg white, with sesame seeds and n baking sheet. Bake at for 6 -minutes or Makes 40 Hopi 

SUB SC RIPTI0~ DONAT ION FORM 

n Io· D I I r 
lJ 
CHIPPEWA PEMMICAN 

1 pound dried meat (beef or venison) 3/4 pound dried and crushed 
chokecherries Sugar to taste (add last) Fresh suet enough to hold 
together. 

Grind meat, berries, and suet in meat grinder. Add sugar. Mix thor oughly and serve. 
ROAST PRAIRIE DOG 
A LA CHOCTAW 

Singe hair off over an open fire. Scrape off blackened hair. Gut the prairie dog. Barbecue over campfir e until well done. 
Also good for groundhog, wood­chuck, rabbit and porcupine: 
MANZANITA WINE 
MONO STYLE 

Gather manzanita berries in high Sierras in July. Crush ber­ries and remove seeds by shak­ing in a basket. Soak pulp 1/ 2 hour or so in water to cover it well. Put into a cone-shaped basket or colander. Pour the same water thr ough the pulp many times until all the juice is ex­tracted. Use as drink or sauce. Store extra juice for use later. 
di s my subscript ion donation 
( 5 .00) . Please mail the next of ' I NDIAN VOICE u u to: 

of Five twe lve 
--------STATE: _ _ _____ ZIP : ___ 
7/mtl>iUM~ t'VfHCtf 8,> 
P.O. BOX 2 033 ~ A TA CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95051 


Bill Introduced To Protect Indian Graves 
ALBANY, N. Y.-Senator Theodore 
D. Day has introduced a bill in the New York legislature which would amend the State conservation law, and the Indian law, in relation to the designation of Indian cemetery or burial grounds as state historic trust. 
The bill provides for the designa­tion of particular places, whether or not owned, operated or maintained by the State, as places of historic in­terest to be marked by a sign or other marker declaring them as such. 
Further, the bill prohibits any al­teration to the designated site with­out the express permission of the board of trustees of such trust as may be appropriate for public recog­nition of such site. 
The Indian law is amended by the bill to read as follows: "The New York State historic trust shall have the power to designate any Indian cemetery or burial ground for historic site purposes pursuant to section 831 of the conservation law." 
The bill is now in committee in the Senate and House. It was de­signed at the request of New York State Indians who have strongly · protested vandalism and "digging" into Indian burial sites by unautho­rized people. 
Indian Index Guide To Be Published Yearly 
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIF.-The In­dian Historian Press has established an annual Index Guide to American Indian literature beginning with the year 1969. 
The publication is a selected in­dex guide to books, chapters in books, periodical articles, book re­views and selected newspaper arti­cles for and about the American Indian. 
Cov~·ed are such diverse fields as anthropology, archeology, history, medicine, social science, the arts, education, law and other fields. 
Included in the index is an annual listing of Indian newspapers and publications of tribal groups and or­ganizations. The index will be cross­indexed by author, subject and title. 

GOODBYE JULIA AND JU LI US 
Dead you said. Soon all the old ones will be gone. They should be remembered in song. Both dead, you said. Julia and Julius Wades-in-the-Water Napii called back his son and daughter. Dead you said. Old Wades who walked with so much pride. Julia who was always at his side. Dead and gone. Old Wades who always took so much joy, In every Indian girl and boy. His two finger hands shake, Used to make my whole arm ache. Dead you said. Old Wades who was born Before the whiteman came. 
Stayed true to his Indian beliefs. 
In spite of his Christian name. Dead you said. Julia and Julius whose buckskins Were always clean and white. Walking together, they were a magnificent sight. Dead you said. 
Good bye Julia and Julius Wades-in-the-Water Good hunting Napii's son and daughter. by Jim Racine (Pikuni-Blackfoot) 




-vtQ· ~J.fMH~~~f-~o 
P.O. BOX 2033 SANTA CLARA, CALIF, 95051 ~ 
Return Requested 



